— CHAPTER ONE —
Dudley Demented
The hottest day of the summer so far was drawing to a close and a drowsy silence lay
over the large, square houses of Privet Drive. Cars that were usually gleaming stood
dusty in their drives and lawns that were once emerald green lay parched and yellowing for the use of hosepipes had been banned due to drought. Deprived of their usual carwashing and lawn-mowing pursuits, the inhabitants of Privet Drive had retreated into the
shade of their cool houses, windows thrown wide in the hope of tempting in a nonexistent
breeze. The only person left outdoors was a teenage boy who was lying flat on his back in
a flowerbed outside number four.
He was a skinny, black-haired, bespectacled boy who had the pinched, slightly unhealthy
look of someone who has grown a lot in a short space of time. His jeans were torn and
dirty, his T-shirt baggy and faded, and the soles of his trainers were peeling away from
the uppers. Harry Potter's appearance did not endear him to the neighbours, who were the
sort of people who thought scruffi-ness ought to be punishable by law, but as he had
hidden himself behind a large hydrangea bush this evening he was quite invisible to
passers-by. In fact, the only way he would be spotted was if his Uncle Vernon or Aunt
Petunia stuck their heads out of the living-room window and looked straight down into
the flowerbed below.
On the whole, Harry thought he was to be congratulated on his idea of hiding here. He
was not, perhaps, very comfortable lying on the hot, hard earth but, on the other hand,
nobody was glaring at him, grinding their teeth so loudly that he could not hear the news,
or shooting nasty questions at him, as had happened every time he had tried sitting down
in the living room to watch television with his aunt and uncle.
Almost as though this thought had fluttered through the open window, Vernon Dursley,
Harry's uncle, suddenly spoke.
'Glad to see the boy's stopped trying to butt in. Where is he, anyway?'
'I don't know,' said Aunt Petunia, unconcerned. 'Not in the house.'
Uncle Vernon grunted.
'Watching the news …' he said scathingly. 'I'd like to know what he's really up to. As if a
normal boy cares what's on the news -Dudley hasn't got a clue what's going on; doubt he
knows who the Prime Minister is! Anyway, it's not as if there'd be anything about his lot
on our news — '
'Vernon, shh!' said Aunt Petunia. The window's open!'
'Oh - yes - sorry, dear.'

The Dursleys fell silent. Harry listened to a jingle about Fruit 'n' Bran breakfast cereal
while he watched Mrs Figg, a batty cat-loving old lady from nearby Wisteria Walk,
amble slowly past. She was frowning and muttering to herself. Harry was very pleased he
was concealed behind the bush, as Mrs Figg had recently taken to asking him round for
tea whenever she met him in the street. She had rounded the corner and vanished from
view before Uncle Vernon's voice floated out of the window again.
'Dudders out for tea?'
'At the Polkisses',' said Aunt Petunia fondly. 'He's got so many little friends, he's so
popular
Harry suppressed a snort with difficulty. The Dursleys really were astonishingly stupid
about their son, Dudley. They had swallowed all his dim-witted lies about having tea with
a different member of his gang every night of the summer holidays. Harry knew perfectly
well that Dudley had not been to tea anywhere; he and his gang spent every evening
vandalising the play park, smoking on street corners and throwing stones at passing cars
and children. Harry had seen them at it during his evening walks around Little Whinging;
he had spent most of the holidays wandering the streets, scavenging newspapers from
bins along the way.
The opening notes of the music that heralded the seven o'clock news reached Harry's ears
and his stomach turned over. Perhaps tonight - after a month of waiting - would be the
night.
'Record numbers of stranded holiday makers fill airports as the Spanish baggagehandlers' strike reaches its second week 'Give 'em a lifelong siesta, I would,' snarled Uncle Vernon over the end of the
newsreader's sentence, but no matter: outside in the flowerbed, Harrys stomach seemed to
unclench. If anything had happened, it would surely have been the first item on the news;
death and destruction were more important than stranded holidaymakers.
He let out a long, slow breath and stared up at the brilliant blue sky. Every day this
summer had been the same: the tension, the expectation, the temporary relief, and then
mounting tension again… and always, growing more insistent all the time, the question
of why nothing had happened yet.
He kept listening, just in case there was some small clue, not recognised for what it really
was by the Muggles - an unexplained disappearance, perhaps, or some strange accident…
but the baggage-handlers' strike was followed by news about the drought in the Southeast
('I hope he's listening next door!' bellowed Uncle Vernon. 'Him with his sprinklers on at
three in the morning!'), then a helicopter that had almost crashed in a field in Surrey, then
a famous actress's divorce from her famous husband ('As if we're interested in their
sordid affairs,' sniffed Aunt Petunia, who had followed the case obsessively in every
magazine she could lay her bony hands on).

Harry closed his eyes against the now blazing evening sky as the newsreader said, '- and
finally, Bungy the budgie has found a novel way of keeping cool this summer. Bungy, who
lives at the Five Feathers in Barnsley, has learned to water ski! Mary Dorkins went to
find out more.'
Harry opened his eyes. If they had reached water-skiing budgerigars, there would be
nothing else worth hearing. He rolled cautiously on to his front and raised himself on to
his knees and elbows, preparing to crawl out from under the window.
He had moved about two inches when several things happened in very quick succession.
A loud, echoing crack broke the sleepy silence like a gunshot; a cat streaked out from
under a parked car and flew out of sight; a shriek, a bellowed oath and the sound of
breaking china came from the Dursleys' living room, and as though this was the signal
Harry had been waiting for he jumped to his feet, at the same time pulling from the
waistband of his jeans a thin wooden wand as if he were unsheathing a sword - but before
he could draw himself up to full height, the top of his head collided with the Dursleys'
open window. The resultant crash made Aunt Petunia scream even louder.
Harry felt as though his head had been split in two. Eyes streaming, he swayed, trying to
focus on the street to spot the source of the noise, but he had barely staggered upright
when two large purple hands reached through the open window and closed tightly around
his throat.
'Put - it - away!' Uncle Vernon snarled into Harry's ear. 'Now.' Before - anyone - sees!'
'Get - off - me!' Harry gasped. For a few seconds they struggled, Harry pulling at his
uncles sausage-like fingers with his left hand, his right maintaining a firm grip on his
raised wand; then, as the pain in the top of Harry's head gave a particularly nasty throb,
Uncle Vernon yelped and released Harry as though he had received an electric shock.
Some invisible force seemed to have surged through his nephew, making him impossible
to hold.
Panting, Harry fell forwards over the hydrangea bush, straightened up and stared around.
There was no sign of what had caused the loud cracking noise, but there were several
faces peering through various nearby windows. Harry stuffed his wand hastily back into
his jeans and tried to look innocent.
'Lovely evening!' shouted Uncle Vernon, waving at Mrs Number Seven opposite, who
was glaring from behind her net curtains. 'Did you hear that car backfire just now? Gave
Petunia and me quite a turn!'
He continued to grin in a horrible, manic way until all the curious neighbours had
disappeared from their various windows, then the grin became a grimace of rage as he
beckoned Harry back towards him.

Harry moved a few steps closer, taking care to stop just short of the point at which Uncle
Vernon's outstretched hands could resume their strangling.
'What the devil do you mean by it, boy?' asked Uncle Vernon in a croaky voice that
trembled with fury.
'What do I mean by what?' said Harry coldly. He kept looking left and right up the street,
still hoping to see the person who had made the cracking noise.
'Making a racket like a starting pistol right outside our 'I didn't make that noise,' said Harry firmly.
Aunt Petunia's thin, horsy face now appeared beside Uncle Vernon's wide, purple one.
She looked livid.
'Why were you lurking under our window?'
'Yes - yes, good point, Petunia! What were you doing under our window, boy?'
'Listening to the news,' said Harry in a resigned voice.
His aunt and uncle exchanged looks of outrage.
'Listening to the news! Again?'
'Well, it changes every day, you see,' said Harry.
'Don't you be clever with me, boy! I want to know what you're really up to - and don't
give me any more of this listening to the news tosh! You know perfectly well that your
lot 'Careful, Vernon!' breathed Aunt Petunia, and Uncle Vernon lowered his voice so that
Harry could barely hear him,'- that your lot don't get on our news!'
'That's all you know,' said Harry.
The Dursleys goggled at him for a few seconds, then Aunt Petunia said, 'You're a nasty
little liar. What are all those -' she, too, lowered her voice so that Harry had to lip-read the
next word, - owls doing if they're not bringing you news?'
'Aha!' said Uncle Vernon in a triumphant whisper. 'Get out of that one, boy! As if we
didn't know you get all your news from those pestilential birds!'
Harry hesitated for a moment. It cost him something to tell the truth this time, even
though his aunt and uncle could not possibly know how bad he felt at admitting it.

'The owls… aren't bringing me news,' he said tonelessly.
'I don't believe it,' said Aunt Petunia at once.
'No more do I,' said Uncle Vernon forcefully.
'We know you're up to something funny,' said Aunt Petunia.
'We're not stupid, you know,' said Uncle Vernon.
'Well, that's news to me,' said Harry, his temper rising, and before the Dursleys could call
him back, he had wheeled about, crossed the front lawn, stepped over the low garden wall
and was striding off up the street.
He was in trouble now and he knew it. He would have to face his aunt and uncle later and
pay the price for his rudeness, but he did not care very much just at the moment; he had
much more pressing matters on his mind.
Harry was sure the cracking noise had been made by someone Apparating or
Disapparating. It was exactly the sound Dobby the house-elf made when he vanished into
thin air. Was it possible that Dobby was here in Privet Drive? Could Dobby be following
him right at this very moment? As this thought occurred he wheeled around and stared
back down Privet Drive, but it appeared to be completely deserted and Harry was sure
that Dobby did not know how to become invisible.
He walked on, hardly aware of the route he was taking, for he had pounded these streets
so often lately that his feet carried him to his favourite haunts automatically. Every few
steps he glanced back over his shoulder. Someone magical had been near him as he lay
among Aunt Petunia's dying begonias, he was sure of it. Why hadn't they spoken to him,
why hadn't they made contact, why were they hiding now?
And then, as his feeling of frustration peaked, his certainty leaked away.
Perhaps it hadn't been a magical sound after all. Perhaps he was so desperate for the
tiniest sign of contact from the world to which he belonged that he was simply
overreacting to perfectly ordinary noises. Could he be sure it hadn't been the sound of
something breaking inside a neighbour's house?
Harry felt a dull, sinking sensation in his stomach and before he knew it the feeling of
hopelessness that had plagued him all summer rolled over him once again.
Tomorrow morning he would be woken by the alarm at five o'clock so he could pay the
owl that delivered the Daily Prophet -but was there any point continuing to take it? Harry
merely glanced at the front page before throwing it aside these days; when the idiots who
ran the paper finally realised that Voldemort was back it would be headline news, and
that was the only kind Harry cared about.

If he was lucky, there would also be owls carrying letters from his best friends Ron and
Hermione, though any expectation he'd had that their letters would bring him news had
long since been dashed.
We can't say much about you-know-what, obviously… We've been told not to say
anything important in case our letters go astray… We're quite busy but I can't give you
details here… There's a fair amount going on, we'll tell you everything when we see
you…
But when were they going to see him? Nobody seemed too bothered with a precise date.
Hermione had scribbled I expect we'll be seeing you quite soon inside his birthday card,
but how soon was soon? As far as Harry could tell from the vague hints in their letters,
Hermione and Ron were in the same place, presumably at Ron's parents' house. He could
hardly bear to think of the pair of them having fun at The Burrow when he was stuck in
Privet Drive. In fact, he was so angry with them he had thrown away, unopened, the two
boxes of Honeydukes chocolates they'd sent him for his birthday. He'd regretted it later,
after the wilted salad Aunt Petunia had provided for dinner that night.
And what were Ron and Hermione busy with? Why wasn't he, Harry, busy? Hadn't he
proved himself capable of handling much more than them? Had they all forgotten what
he had done? Hadn't it been he who had entered that graveyard and watched Cedric being
murdered, and been tied to that tombstone and nearly killed?
Don't think about that, Harry told himself sternly for the hundredth lime that summer. It
was bad enough that he kept revisiting the graveyard in his nightmares, without dwelling
on it in his waking moments too.
He turned a corner into Magnolia Crescent; halfway along he passed the narrow alleyway
down the side of a garage where he had first clapped eyes on his godfather. Sirius, at
least, seemed to understand how Harry was feeling. Admittedly, his letters were just as
empty of proper news as Ron and Hermione's, but at least they contained words of
caution and consolation instead of tantalising hints:
I know this must be frustrating for you… Keep your nose clean and everything will be
OK… Be careful and don't do anything rash…
Well, thought Harry, as he crossed Magnolia Crescent, turned into Magnolia Road and
headed towards the darkening play park, he had (by and .large) done as Sirius advised.
He had at least resisted the temptation to tie his trunk to his broomstick and set off for
The Burrow by himself. In fact, Harry thought his behaviour had been very good
considering how frustrated and angry he felt at being stuck in Privet Drive so long,
reduced to hiding in flowerbeds in the hope of hearing something that might point to
what Lord Voldemort was doing. Nevertheless, it was quite galling to be told not to be
rash by a man who had served twelve years in the wizard prison, Azkaban, escaped,
attempted to commit the murder he had been convicted for in the first place, then gone on
the run with a stolen Hippogriff.

Harry vaulted over the locked park gate and set off across the parched grass. The park
was as empty as the surrounding streets. When he reached the swings he sank on to the
only one that Dudley and his friends had not yet managed to break, coiled one arm
around the chain and stared moodily at the ground. He would not be able to hide in the
Dursleys' flowerbed again. Tomorrow, he would have to think of some fresh way of
listening to the news. In the meantime, he had nothing to look forward to but another
restless, disturbed night, because even when he escaped the nightmares about Cedric he
had unsettling dreams about long dark corridors, all finishing in dead ends and locked
doors, which he supposed had something to do with the trapped feeling he had when he
was awake. Often the old scar on his forehead prickled uncomfortably, but he did not fool
himself that Ron or Hermione or Sirius would find that very interesting any more. In the
past, his scar hurting had warned that Voldemort was getting stronger again, but now that
Voldemort was back they would probably remind him that its regular irritation was only
to be expected… nothing to worry about… old news…
The injustice of it all welled up inside him so that he wanted to yell with fury. If it hadn't
been for him, nobody would even have known Voldemort was back! And his reward was
to be stuck in Little Whinging for four solid weeks, completely cut off from the magical
world, reduced to squatting among dying begonias so that he could hear about waterskiing budgerigars! How could Dumbledore have forgotten him so easily? Why had Ron
and Hermione got together without inviting him along, too? How much longer was he
supposed to endure Sirius telling him to sit tight and be a good boy; or resist the
temptation to write to the stupid Daily Prophet and point out that Voldemort had
returned? These furious thoughts whirled around in Harry's head, and his insides writhed
with anger as a sultry, velvety night fell around him, the air full of the smell of warm, dry
grass, and the only sound that of the low grumble of traffic on the road beyond the park
railings.
He did not know how long he had sat on the swing before the sound of voices interrupted
his musings and he looked up. The streetlamps from the surrounding roads were casting a
misty glow strong enough to silhouette a group of people making their way across the
park. One of them was singing a loud, crude song. The others were laughing. A soft
ticking noise came from several expensive racing bikes that they were wheeling along.
Harry knew who those people were. The figure in front was unmistakeably his cousin,
Dudley Dursley, wending his way home, accompanied by his faithful gang.
Dudley was as vast as ever, but a year's hard dieting and the discovery of a new talent had
wrought quite a change in his physique. As Uncle Vernon delightedly told anyone who
would listen, Dudley had recently become the Junior Heavyweight Inter-School Boxing
Champion of the Southeast. The noble sport', as Uncle Vernon called it, had made
Dudley even more formidable than he had seemed to Harry in their primary school days
when he had served as Dudley's first punchball. Harry was not remotely afraid of his
cousin any more but he still didn't think that Dudley learning to punch harder and more
accurately was cause for celebration. Neighbourhood children all around were terrified of
him - even more terrified than they were of 'that Potter boy' who, they had been warned,

was a hardened hooligan and attended St Brutus's Secure Centre for Incurably Criminal
Boys.
Harry watched the dark figures crossing the grass and wondered who they had been
beating up tonight. Look round, Harry found himself thinking as he watched them. Come
on… look round… I'm sitting here all alone… come and have a go…
If Dudley's friends saw him sitting here, they would be sure to make a beeline for him,
and what would Dudley do then? He wouldn't want to lose face in front of the gang, but
he'd be terrified of provoking Harry… it would be really fun to watch Dudley's dilemma,
to taunt him, watch him, with him powerless to respond… and if any of the others tried
hitting Harry, he was ready - he had his wand. Let them try… he'd love to vent some of
his frustration on the boys who had once made his life hell.
But they didn't turn around, they didn't see him, they were almost at the railings. Harry
mastered the impulse to call after them… seeking a fight was not a smart move… he
must not use magic… he would be risking expulsion again.
The voices of Dudley's gang died away; they were out of sight, heading along Magnolia
Road.
There you go, Sirius, Harry thought dully. Nothing rash. Kept my nose clean. Exactly the
opposite of what you'd have done.
He got to his feet and stretched. Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon seemed to feel that
whenever Dudley turned up was the right time to be home, and any time after that was
much too late. Uncle Vernon had threatened to lock Harry in the shed if he came home
after Dudley ever again, so, stifling a yawn, and still scowling, Harry set off towards the
park gate.
Magnolia Road, like Privet Drive, was full of large, square houses with perfectly
manicured lawns, all owned by large, square owners who drove very clean cars similar to
Uncle Vernon's. Harry preferred Little Whinging by night, when the curtained windows
made patches of jewel-bright colour in the darkness and he ran no danger of hearing
disapproving mutters about his 'delinquent' appearance when he passed the householders.
He walked quickly, so that halfway along Magnolia Road Dudley's gang came into view
again; they were saying their farewells at the entrance to Magnolia Crescent. Harry
stepped into the shadow of a large lilac tree and waited.
'… squealed like a pig, didn't he?' Malcolm was saying, to guffaws from the others.
'Nice right hook, Big D,' said Piers.
'Same time tomorrow?' said Dudley.
'Round at my place, my parents will be out,' said Gordon.

'See you then,' said Dudley.
'Bye, Dud!'
'See ya, Big D!'
Harry waited for the rest of the gang to move on before setting off again. When their
voices had faded once more he headed around the corner into Magnolia Crescent and by
walking very quickly he soon came within hailing distance of Dudley, who was strolling
along at his ease, humming tunelessly.
'Hey, Big D!'
Dudley turned.
'Oh,' he grunted. 'It's you.'
'How long have you been "Big D" then?' said Harry.
'Shut it,' snarled Dudley, turning away.
'Cool name,' said Harry, grinning and falling into step beside his cousin. 'But you'll
always be "Ickle Diddykins" to me.'
'I said, SHUT IT!' said Dudley, whose ham-like hands had curled into fists.
'Don't the boys know that's what your mum calls you?'
'Shut your face.'
'You don't tell her to shut her face. What about "Popkin" and "Dinky Diddydums", can I
use them then?'
Dudley said nothing. The effort of keeping himself from hitting Harry seemed to demand
all his self-control.
'So who've you been beating up tonight?' Harry asked, his grin fading. 'Another ten-yearold? I know you did Mark Evans two nights ago 'He was asking for it,' snarled Dudley.
'Oh yeah?'
'He cheeked me.'

'Yeah? Did he say you look like a pig that's been taught to walk on its hind legs? 'Cause
that's not cheek, Dud, that's true.'
A muscle was twitching in Dudley's jaw. It gave Harry enormous satisfaction to know
how furious he was making Dudley; he felt as though he was siphoning off his own
frustration into his cousin, the only outlet he had.
They turned right down the narrow alleyway where Harry had first seen Sirius and which
formed a short cut between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria Walk. It was empty and
much darker than the streets it linked because there were no streetlamps. Their footsteps
were muffled between garage walls on one side and a high fence on the other.
Think you're a big man carrying that thing, don't you?' Dudley said after a few seconds.
'What thing?'
'That - that thing you are hiding.'
Harry grinned again.
'Not as stupid as you look, are you, Dud? But I's'pose, if you were, you wouldn't be able
to walk and talk at the same time.'
Harry pulled out his wand. He saw Dudley look sideways at it.
'You're not allowed,' Dudley said at once. 'I know you're not. You'd get expelled from
that freak school you go to.'
'How d'you know they haven't changed the rules, Big D?'
They haven't,' said Dudley, though he didn't sound completely convinced.
Harry laughed softly.
'You haven't got the guts to take me on without that thing, have you?' Dudley snarled.
'Whereas you just need four mates behind you before you can beat up a ten year old. You
know that boxing title you keep banging on about? How old was your opponent? Seven?
Eight?'
'He was sixteen, for your information,' snarled Dudley, 'and he was out cold for twenty
minutes after I'd finished with him and he was twice as heavy as you. You just wait till I
tell Dad you had that thing out 'Running to Daddy now, are you? Is his ickle boxing champ frightened of nasty Harry's
wand?'

'Not this brave at night, are you?' sneered Dudley.
This is night, Diddykins. That's what we call it when it goes all dark like this.'
'I mean when you're in bed!' Dudley snarled.
He had stopped walking. Harry stopped too, staring at his cousin.
From the little he could see of Dudley's large face, he was wearing a strangely triumphant
look.
'What d'you mean, I'm not brave when I'm in bed?' said Harry, completely nonplussed.
'What am I supposed to be frightened of, pillows or something?'
'I heard you last night,' said Dudley breathlessly. Talking in your sleep. Moaning.'
'What d'you mean?' Harry said again, but there was a cold, plunging sensation in his
stomach. He had revisited the graveyard last night in his dreams.
Dudley gave a harsh bark of laughter, then adopted a high-pitched whimpering voice.
'"Don't kill Cedric! Don't kill Cedric!" Who's Cedric - your boyfriend?'
'I - you're lying,' said Harry automatically. But his mouth had gone dry. He knew Dudley
wasn't lying - how else would he know about Cedric?
'"Dad! Help me, Dad! He's going to kill me, Dad! Boo hoo!"'
'Shut up,' said Harry quietly. 'Shut up, Dudley, I'm warning you!'
''Come and help me, Dad! Mum, come and help me! He's killed Cedric! Dad, help me!
He's going to -" Don't you point that thing at me!'
Dudley backed into the alley wall. Harry was pointing the wand directly at Dudley's
heart. Harry could feel fourteen years' hatred of Dudley pounding in his veins - what
wouldn't he give to strike now, to jinx Dudley so thoroughly he'd have to crawl home like
an insect, struck dumb, sprouting feelers…
'Don't ever talk about that again,' Harry snarled. 'D'you understand me?'
'Point that thing somewhere else!'
'I said, do you understand me?'
'Point it somewhere else!'

'DO YOU UNDERSTAND ME?'
'GET THAT THING AWAY FROM -'
Dudley gave an odd, shuddering gasp, as though he had been doused in icy water.
Something had happened to the night. The star-strewn indigo sky was suddenly pitch
black and lightless - the stars, the moon, the misty streetlamps at either end of the alley
had vanished. The distant rumble of cars and the whisper of trees had gone. The balmy
evening was suddenly piercingly, bitingly cold. They were surrounded by total,
impenetrable, silent darkness, as though some giant hand had dropped a thick, icy mantle
over the entire alleyway, blinding them.
For a split second Harry thought he had done magic without meaning to, despite the fact
that he'd been resisting as hard as he could - then his reason caught up with his senses he didn't have the power to turn off the stars. He turned his head this way and that, trying
to see something, but the darkness pressed on his eyes like a weightless veil.
Dudley's terrified voice broke in Harry's ear.
'W-what are you d-doing? St-stop it!'
'I'm not doing anything! Shut up and don't move!'
'I c-can't see! I've g-gone blind! I -'
'I said shut up!'
Harry stood stock still, turning his sightless eyes left and right. The cold was so intense
he was shivering all over; goose bumps had erupted up his arms and the hairs on the back
of his neck were standing up - he opened his eyes to their fullest extent, staring blankly
around, unseeing.
It was impossible… they couldn't be here… not in Little Whinging… he strained his
ears… he would hear them before he saw them…
'I'll't-tell Dad!' Dudley whimpered. 'W-where are you? What are you d-do—?'
'Will you shut up?' Harry hissed, I'm trying to lis—'
But he fell silent. He had heard just the thing he had been dreading.
There was something in the alleyway apart from themselves, something that was drawing
long, hoarse, rattling breaths. Harry felt a horrible jolt of dread as he stood trembling in
the freezing air.

'C-cut it out! Stop doing it! I'll h-hit you, I swear I will!'
'Dudley, shut—'
WHAM.
A fist made contact with the side of Harrys head, lifting him off his feet. Small white
lights popped in front of his eyes. For the second time in an hour Harry felt as though his
head had been cleaved in two; next moment, he had landed hard on the ground and his
wand had flown out of his hand.
'You moron, Dudley!' Harry yelled, his eyes watering with pain as he scrambled to his
hands and knees, feeling around frantically in the blackness. He heard Dudley blundering
away, hitting the alley fence, stumbling.
'DUDLEY, COME BACK! YOU'RE RUNNING RIGHT AT IT!'
There was a horrible squealing yell and Dudley's footsteps stopped. At the same moment,
Harry felt a creeping chill behind him that could mean only one thing. There was more
than one.
'DUDLEY, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! WHATEVER YOU DO, KEEP YOUR
MOUTH SHUT! Wand!' Harry muttered frantically, his hands flying over the ground like
spiders. 'Where's - wand -come on - lumos!'
He said the spell automatically, desperate for light to help him in his search - and to his
disbelieving relief, light flared inches from his right hand - the wand tip had ignited.
Harry snatched it up, scrambled to his feet and turned around.
His stomach turned over.
A towering, hooded figure was gliding smoothly towards him, hovering over the ground,
no feet or face visible beneath its robes, sucking on the night as it came.
Stumbling backwards, Harry raised his wand.
'Expecto patronum!'
A silvery wisp of vapour shot from the tip of the wand and the Dementor slowed, but the
spell hadn't worked properly; tripping over his own feet, Harry retreated further as the
Dementor bore down upon him, panic fogging his brain - concentrate A pair of grey, slimy, scabbed hands slid from inside the Dementor's robes, reaching for
him. A rushing noise filled Harry's ears.
'Expecto patronum!'

His voice sounded dim and distant. Another wisp of silver smoke, feebler than the last,
drifted from the wand - he couldn't do it any more, he couldn't work the spell.
There was laughter inside his own head, shrill, high-pitched laughter… he could smell
the Dementor's putrid, death-cold breath filling his own lungs, drowning him - think…
something happy…
But there was no happiness in him… the Dementor's icy fingers were closing on his
throat - the high-pitched laughter was growing louder and louder, and a voice spoke
inside his head: 'Bow to death, Harry…it might even be painless… I would not know … I
have never died …"
He was never going to see Ron and Hermione again And their faces burst clearly into his mind as he fought for breath.
'EXPECTO PATRONUM!'
An enormous silver stag erupted from the tip of Harry's wand; its antlers caught the
Dementor in the place where the heart should have been; it was thrown backwards,
weightless as darkness, and as the stag charged, the Dementor swooped away, bat-like
and defeated.
'THIS WAY!' Harry shouted at the stag. Wheeling around, he sprinted down the
alleyway, holding the lit wand aloft. 'DUDLEY? DUDLEY!'
He had run barely a dozen steps when he reached them: Dudley was curled up on the
ground, his arms clamped over his face. A second Dementor was crouching low over
him, gripping his wrists in its slimy hands, prising them slowly almost lovingly apart,
lowering its hooded head towards Dudley's face as though about to kiss him.
'GET IT!' Harry bellowed, and with a rushing, roaring sound, the silver stag he had
conjured came galloping past him. The Dementor's eyeless face was barely an inch from
Dudley's when the silver antlers caught it; the thing was thrown up into the air and, like
its fellow, it soared away and was absorbed into the darkness; the stag cantered to the end
of the alleyway and dissolved into silver mist.
Moon, stars and streetlamps burst back into life. A warm breeze swept the alleyway.
Trees rustled in neighbouring gardens and the mundane rumble of cars in Magnolia
Crescent filled the air again.
Harry stood quite still, all his senses vibrating, taking in the abrupt return to normality.
After a moment, he became aware that his T-shirt was sticking to him; he was drenched
in sweat.
He could not believe what had just happened. Dementors here, in Little Whinging.

Dudley lay curled up on the ground, whimpering and shaking. Harry bent down to see
whether he was in a fit state to stand up, but then he heard loud, running footsteps behind
him. Instinctively raising his wand again, he span on his heel to face the newcomer.
Mrs Figg, their batty old neighbour, came panting into sight. Her grizzled grey hair was
escaping from its hairnet, a clanking string shopping bag was swinging from her wrist
and her feet were halfway out of her tartan carpet slippers. Harry made to stow his wand
hurriedly out of sight, but 'Don't put it away idiot boy!' she shrieked. 'What if there are more of them around? Oh,
I'm going to kill Mundungus Fletcher!'
— CHAPTER TWO
A Peck of Owls
'What?' said Harry blankly.
'He left!' said Mrs Figg, wringing her hands. 'Left to see someone about a batch of
cauldrons that fell off the back of a broom! I told him I'd flay him alive if he went, and
now look! Dementors! It's just lucky I put Mr Tibbies on the case! But we haven't got
time to stand around! Hurry, now, we've got to get you back! Oh, the trouble this is going
to cause! I will kill him!'
'But -' The revelation that his batty old cat-obsessed neighbour knew what Dementors
were was almost as big a shock to Harry as meeting two of them down the alleyway.
'You're - you're a witch?'
'I'm a Squib, as Mundungus knows full well, so how on earth was I supposed to help you
fight off Dementors? He left you completely without cover when I'd warned him -'
This Mundungus has been following me? Hang on - it was him! He Disapparated from
the front of my house!'
'Yes, yes, yes, but luckily I'd stationed Mr Tibbies under a car just in case, and Mr
Tibbies came and warned me, but by the time I got to your house you'd gone - and now oh, what's Dumbledore going to say? You!' she shrieked at Dudley, still supine on the
alley floor. 'Get your fat bottom off the ground, quick!'
'You know Dumbledore?' said Harry, staring at her.
'Of course I know Dumbledore, who doesn't know Dumbledore? But come on - I'll be no
help if they come back, I've never so much as Transfigured a teabag.'
She stooped down, seized one of Dudley's massive arms in her wizened hands and
tugged.

'Get up, you useless lump, get up!'
But Dudley either could not or would not move. He remained on the ground, trembling
and ashen-faced, his mouth shut very tight.
'I'll do it.' Harry took hold of Dudley's arm and heaved. With an enormous effort he
managed to hoist him to his feet. Dudley seemed to be on the point of fainting. His small
eyes were rolling in their sockets and sweat was beading his face; the moment Harry let
go of him he swayed dangerously.
'Hurry up!' said Mrs Figg hysterically.
Harry pulled one of Dudley's massive arms around his own shoulders and dragged him
towards the road, sagging slightly under the weight. Mrs Figg tottered along in front of
them, peering anxiously around the corner.
'Keep your wand out,' she told Harry, as they entered Wisteria Walk. 'Never mind the
Statute of Secrecy now, there's going to be hell to pay anyway, we might as well be
hanged for a dragon as an egg. Talk about the Reasonable Restriction of Underage
Sorcery… this was exactly what Dumbledore was afraid of - What's that at the end of the
street? Oh, it's just Mr Prentice… don't put your wand away, boy, don't 1 keep telling you
I'm no use?'
It was not easy to hold a wand steady and haul Dudley along at the same time. Harry
gave his cousin an impatient dig in the ribs, but Dudley seemed to have lost all desire for
independent movement. He was slumped on Harry's shoulder, his large feet dragging
along the ground.
'Why didn't you tell me you're a Squib, Mrs Figg?' asked Harry, panting with the effort to
keep walking. 'All those times I came round your house - why didn't you say anything?'
'Dumbledore's orders. I was to keep an eye on you but not say anything, you were too
young. I'm sorry I gave you such a miserable time, Harry, but the Dursleys would never
have let you come if they'd thought you enjoyed it. It wasn't easy, you know… but oh my
word,' she said tragically, wringing her hands once more, 'when Dumbledore hears about
this - how could Mundungus have left, he was supposed to be on duty until midnight where is he? How am I going to tell Dumbledore what's happened? I can't Apparate.'
'I've got an owl, you can borrow her.' Harry groaned, wondering whether his spine was
going to snap under Dudleys weight.
'Harry, you don't understand! Dumbledore will need to act as quickly as possible, the
Ministry have their own ways of detecting underage magic, they'll know already, you
mark my words.'

'But I was getting rid of Dementors, I had to use magic - they're going to be more worried
about what Dementors were doing floating around Wisteria Walk, surely?'
'Oh, my dear, I wish it were so, but I'm afraid - MUNDUNGUS FLETCHER, I AM
GOING TO KILL YOU!'
There was a loud crack and a strong smell of drink mingled with stale tobacco filled the
air as a squat, unshaven man in a tattered overcoat materialised right in front of them. He
had short, bandy legs, long straggly ginger hair and bloodshot, baggy eyes that gave him
the doleful look of a basset hound. He was also clutching a silvery bundle that Harry
recognised at once as an Invisibility Cloak.
'S'up, Figgy?' he said, staring from Mrs Figg to Harry and Dudley. 'What 'appened to
staying undercover?'
Til give you undercover]' cried Mrs Figg. 'Dementors, you useless, skiving sneak thief!'
'Dementors?' repeated Mundungus, aghast. 'Dementors, 'ere?'
'Yes, here, you worthless pile of bat droppings, here!' shrieked Mrs Figg. 'Dementors
attacking the boy on your watch!'
'Blimey,' said Mundungus weakly, looking from Mrs Figg to Harry, and back again.
'Blimey, I -'
'And you off buying stolen cauldrons! Didn't I tell you not to go? Didn't IT
'I - well, I -' Mundungus looked deeply uncomfortable. 'It — it was a very good business
opportunity, see -'
Mrs Figg raised the arm from which her string bag dangled and whacked Mundungus
around the face and neck with it; judging by the clanking noise it made it was full of cat
food.
'Ouch - gerroff - gerroff, you mad old bat! Someone's gotta tell Dumbledore!'
'Yes - they - have!' yelled Mrs Figg, swinging the bag of cat food at every bit of
Mundungus she could reach. 'And - it - had
- better - be - you - and - you - can - tell - him - why - you -weren't - there - to - help!'
'Keep your 'airnet on!' said Mundungus, his arms over his head, cowering. 'I'm going, I'm
going!'
And with another loud crack, he vanished.

'I hope Dumbledore murders him!' said Mrs Figg furiously. 'Now come on, Harry, what
are you waiting for?'
Harry decided not to waste his remaining breath on pointing out that he could barely walk
under Dudley's bulk. He gave the semi-conscious Dudley a heave and staggered onwards.
'I'll take you to the door,' said Mrs Figg, as they turned into Privet Drive. 'Just in case
there are more of them around… oh my word, what a catastrophe… and you had to fight
them off yourself… and Dumbledore said we were to keep you from doing magic at all
costs… well, it's no good crying over spilt potion, 1 suppose… but the cat's among the
pixies now.'
'So,' Harry panted, 'Dumbledore's… been having… me followed?'
'Of course he has,' said Mrs Figg impatiently. 'Did you expect him to let you wander
around on your own after what happened in June? Good Lord, boy, they told me you
were intelligent… right… get inside and stay there,' she said, as they reached number
four. 'I expect someone will be in touch with you soon enough.'
'What are you going to do?' asked Harry quickly.
'I'm going straight home,' said Mrs Figg, staring around the dark street and shuddering.
'I'll need to wait for more instructions. Just stay in the house. Goodnight.'
'Hang on, don't go yet! I want to know But Mrs Figg had already set off at a trot, carpet slippers flopping, string bag clanking.
'Wait!' Harry shouted after her. He had a million questions to ask anyone who was in
contact with Dumbledore; but within seconds Mrs Figg was swallowed by the darkness.
Scowling, Harry readjusted Dudley on his shoulder and made his slow, painful way up
number four's garden path.
The hall light was on. Harry stuck his wand back inside the waistband of his jeans, rang
the bell and watched Aunt Petunia's outline grow larger and larger, oddly distorted by the
rippling glass in the front door.
'Diddy! About time too, I was getting quite - quite - Diddy, what's the matter!'
Harry looked sideways at Dudley and ducked out from under his arm just in time. Dudley
swayed on the spot for a moment, his face pale green… then he opened his mouth and
vomited all over the doormat.
'DIDDY! Diddy, what's the matter with you? Vernon? VERNON!'

Harry's uncle came galumphing out of the living room, walrus moustache blowing
hither and thither as it always did when he was agitated. He hurried forwards to help
Aunt Petunia negotiate a weak-kneed Dudley over the threshold while avoiding stepping
in the pool of sick.
'He's ill, Vernon!'
'What is it, son? What's happened? Did Mrs Polkiss give you something foreign for tea?'
'Why are you all covered in dirt, darling? Have you been lying on the ground?'
'Hang on - you haven't been mugged, have you, son?'
Aunt Petunia screamed.
'Phone the police, Vernon! Phone the police! Diddy, darling, speak to Mummy! What did
they do to you?'
In all the kerfuffle nobody seemed to have noticed Harry, which suited him perfectly. He
managed to slip inside just before Uncle Vernon slammed the door and, while the
Dursleys made their noisy progress down the hall towards the kitchen, Harry moved
carefully and quietly towards the stairs.
'Who did it, son? Give us names. We'll get them, don't worry.'
'Shh! He's trying to say something, Vernon! What is it, Diddy? Tell Mummy!'
Harry's foot was on the bottom-most stair when Dudley found his voice.
'Him.'
Harry froze, foot on the stair, face screwed up, braced for the explosion.
'BOY! COME HERE!'
With a feeling of mingled dread and anger, Harry removed his foot slowly from the stair
and turned to follow the Dursleys.
The scrupulously clean kitchen had an oddly unreal glitter after the darkness outside.
Aunt Petunia was ushering Dudley into a chair; he was still very green and clammylooking. Uncle Vernon standing in front of the draining board, glaring at Harry through
tiny, narrowed eyes.
'What have you done to my son?' he said in a menacing growl.
'Nothing,' said Harry, knowing perfectly well that Uncle Vernon wouldn't believe him.

'What did he do to you, Diddy?' Aunt Petunia said in a quavering voice, now sponging
sick from the front of Dudley's leather jacket. 'Was it - was it you-know-what, darling?
Did he use - his thing?'
Slowly, tremulously, Dudley nodded.
'I didn't!' Harry said sharply, as Aunt Petunia let out a wail and
Uncle Vernon raised his fists. 'I didn't do anything to him, it wasn't me, it was But at that precise moment a screech owl swooped in through the kitchen window.
Narrowly missing the top of Uncle Vernon's head, it soared across the kitchen, dropped
the large parchment envelope it was carrying in its beak at Harry's feet, turned gracefully,
the tips of its wings just brushing the top of the fridge, then zoomed outside again and off
across the garden.
'OWLS!' bellowed Uncle Vernon, the well-worn vein in his temple pulsing angrily as he
slammed the kitchen window shut. 'OWLS AGAIN! I WILL NOT HAVE ANY MORE
OWLS IN MY HOUSE!'
But Harry was already ripping open the envelope and pulling out the letter inside, his
heart pounding somewhere in the region of his Adam's apple.
Dear Mr Potter,
We have received intelligence that you performed the Patronus Charm at twenty-three
minutes past nine this evening in a Muggle-inhabited area and in the presence of a
Muggle.
The seventy of this breach of the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage
Sorcery has resulted in your expulsion
from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Ministry representatives will be
calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy your wand.
As you have already received an official warning for a previous offence under Section 13
of the International Confederation of Warlocks' Statute of Secrecy, we regret to inform
you that your presence is required at a disciplinary hearing at the Ministry of Magic at 9
a.m. on the twelfth of August.
Hoping you are well,
Yours sincerely,
Mafalda Hopkirk

Improper Use of Magic Office
Ministry of Magic
Harry read the letter through twice. He was only vaguely aware of Uncle Vernon and
Aunt Petunia talking. Inside his head, all was icy and numb. One fact had penetrated his
consciousness like a paralysing dart. He was expelled from Hogwarts. It was all over. He
was never going back.
He looked up at the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon was purple-faced, shouting, his fists still
raised; Aunt Petunia had her arms around Dudley, who was retching again.
Harry's temporarily stupefied brain seemed to reawaken. Ministry representatives will be
calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy your wand. There was only one thing
for it. He would have to run - now. Where he was going to go, Harry didn't know, but he
was certain of one thing: at Hogwarts or outside it, he needed his wand. In an almost
dreamlike state, he pulled his wand out and turned to leave the kitchen.
'Where d'you think you're going?' yelled Uncle Vernon. When Harry didn't reply, he
pounded across the kitchen to block the doorway into the hall. 'I haven't finished with
you, boy!'
'Get out of the way,' said Harry quietly.
'You're going to stay here and explain how my son —'
'If you don't get out of the way I'm going to jinx you,' said Harry, raising the wand.
'You can't pull that one on me!' snarled Uncle Vernon. 'I know you're not allowed to use
it outside that madhouse you call a school!'
The madhouse has chucked me out,' said Harry. 'So I can do whatever I like. You've got
three seconds. One - two -'
A resounding CRACK filled the kitchen. Aunt Petunia screamed,
I hide Vernon yelled and ducked, but for the third time that night Harry was searching for
the source of a disturbance he had not made. He spotted it at once: a dazed and ruffledlooking barn owl was sitting outside on the kitchen sill, having just collided with the
closed window.
Ignoring Uncle Vernon's anguished yell of 'OWLS!' Harry crossed the room at a run and
wrenched the window open. The owl stuck out its leg, to which a small roll of parchment
was tied, shook its leathers, and took off the moment Harry had taken the letter. Hands
shaking, Harry unfurled the second message, which was written very hastily and blotchily
in black ink.

Harry —
Dumbledore's just arrived at the Ministry and he's trying to sort it all out. DO NOT
LEAVE YOUR AUNT AND UNCLE'S HOUSE. DO NOT DO ANY MORE MAGIC. DO
NOT SURRENDER YOUR WAND. Arthur Weasley
Dumbledore was trying to sort it all out… what did that mean? How much power did
Dumbledore have to override the Ministry of Magic? Was there a chance that he might be
allowed back to Hogwarts, then? A small shoot of hope burgeoned in Harry's chest,
almost immediately strangled by panic - how was he supposed to refuse to surrender his
wand without doing magic? He'd have to duel with the Ministry representatives, and if he
did that, he'd be lucky to escape Azkaban, let alone expulsion.
His mind was racing… he could run for it and risk being cap-lured by the Ministry, or
stay put and wait for them to find him here. He was much more tempted by the former
course, but he knew Mr Weasley had his best interests at heart… and after all,
Dumbledore had sorted out much worse than this before.
'Right,' Harry said, 'I've changed my mind, I'm staying.' He flung himself down at the
kitchen table and faced Dudley and Aunt Petunia. The Dursleys appeared taken aback at
his abrupt change of mind. Aunt Petunia glanced despairingly at Uncle Vernon. The vein
in his purple temple was throbbing worse than ever.
'Who are all these ruddy owls from?' he growled.
The first one was from the Ministry of Magic, expelling me,' said Harry calmly. He was
straining his ears to catch any noises outside, in case the Ministry representatives were
approaching, and it was easier and quieter to answer Uncle Vernon's questions than to
have him start raging and bellowing. 'The second one was from my friend Ron's dad, who
works at the Ministry.'
'Ministry of Magic?' bellowed Uncle Vernon. 'People like you in government! Oh, this
explains everything, everything, no wonder the country's going to the dogs.'
When Harry did not respond, Uncle Vernon glared at him, then spat out, 'And why have
you been expelled?'
'Because I did magic.'
'AHA!' roared Uncle Vernon, slamming his fist down on top of the fridge, which sprang
open; several of Dudley's low-fat snacks toppled out and burst on the floor. 'So you admit
it! What did you do to Dudley?'
'Nothing,' said Harry, slightly less calmly. 'That wasn't me -'

'Was,' muttered Dudley unexpectedly, and Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia instantly
made flapping gestures at Harry to quieten him while they both bent low over Dudley.
'Go on, son,' said Uncle Vernon, 'what did he do?'
Tell us, darling,' whispered Aunt Petunia.
'Pointed his wand at me,' Dudley mumbled.
'Yeah, I did, but I didn't use -' Harry began angrily, but 'SHUT UP!' roared Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia in unison.
'Go on, son,' repeated Uncle Vernon, moustache blowing about furiously.
'All went dark,' Dudley said hoarsely, shuddering. 'Everything dark. And then I h-heard…
things. Inside m-my head.'
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia exchanged looks of utter horror. If their least favourite
thing in the world was magic - closely followed by neighbours who cheated more than
they did on the hosepipe ban - people who heard voices were definitely in the bottom ten.
They obviously thought Dudley was losing his mind.
'What sort of things did you hear, Popkin?' breathed Aunt Petunia, very white-faced and
with tears in her eyes.
But Dudley seemed incapable of saying. He shuddered again and shook his large blond
head, and despite the sense of numb dread that had settled on Harry since the arrival of
the first owl, he felt a certain curiosity. Dementors caused a person to relive the worst
moments of their life. What would spoiled, pampered, bullying Dudley have been forced
to hear?
'How come you fell over, son?' said Uncle Vernon, in an unnaturally quiet voice, the kind
of voice he might adopt at the bedside of a very ill person.
'T-tripped,' said Dudley shakily. 'And then He gestured at his massive chest. Harry understood. Dudley was remembering the
clammy cold that filled the lungs as hope and happiness were sucked out of you.
'Horrible,' croaked Dudley. 'Cold. Really cold.'
'OK,' said Uncle Vernon, in a voice of forced calm, while Aunt Petunia laid an anxious
hand on Dudley's forehead to feel his temperature. 'What happened then, Dudders?'
'Felt… felt… felt… as if… as if…'

'As if you'd never be happy again,' Harry supplied dully.
'Yes,' Dudley whispered, still trembling.
'So!' said Uncle Vernon, voice restored to full and considerable volume as he straightened
up. 'You put some crackpot spell on my son so he'd hear voices and believe he was - was
doomed to misery, or something, did you?'
'How many times do I have to tell you?' said Harry, temper and voice both rising. 'It
wasn't me! It was a couple of Dementors!'
'A couple of - what's this codswallop?'
'De - men - tors,' said Harry slowly and clearly. 'Two of them.'
'And what the ruddy hell are Dementors?'
'They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban,' said Aunt Petunia.
Two seconds of ringing silence followed these words before Aunt Petunia clapped her
hand over her mouth as though she had let slip a disgusting swear word. Uncle Vernon
was goggling at her. Harrys brain reeled. Mrs Figg was one thing - but Aunt Petunia'?
'How d'you know that?' he asked her, astonished.
Aunt Petunia looked quite appalled with herself. She glanced at Uncle Vernon in fearful
apology, then lowered her hand slightly to reveal her horsy teeth.
'I heard - that awful boy - telling her about them - years ago,' she said jerkily.
'If you mean my mum and dad, why don't you use their names?' said Harry loudly, but
Aunt Petunia ignored him. She seemed horribly flustered.
Harry was stunned. Except for one outburst years ago, in the course of which Aunt
Petunia had screamed that Harry's mother had been a freak, he had. never heard her
mention her sister. He was astounded that she had remembered this scrap of information
about the magical world for so long, when she usually put all her energies into pretending
it didn't exist.
Uncle Vernon opened his mouth, closed it again, opened it once more, shut it, then,
apparently struggling to remember how to talk, opened it for a third time and croaked, 'So
- so - they - er - they - er - they actually exist, do they - er - Dementy-whatsits?'
Aunt Petunia nodded.

Uncle Vernon looked from Aunt Petunia to Dudley to Harry as if hoping somebody was
going to shout 'April Fool!' When nobody did, he opened his mouth yet again, but was
spared the struggle to find more words by the arrival of the third owl of the evening. It
zoomed through the still-open window like a feathery cannon-ball and landed with a
clatter on the kitchen table, causing all three of the Dursleys to jump with fright. Harry
tore a second official-looking envelope from the owls beak and ripped it open as the owl
swooped back out into the night.
'Enough - effing - owls,' muttered Uncle Vernon distractedly, stomping over to the
window and slamming it shut again.
Dear Mr Potter,
Further to our letter of approximately twenty-two minutes ago, the
Ministry of Magic has revised its decision to destroy your wand forthwith. You may
retain your wand until your disciplinary hearing on the twelfth of August, at which time
an official decision will be taken.
Following discussions with the Headmaster of Hogwarts School o/ Witchcraft and
Wizardry, the Ministry has agreed that the question of your expulsion will also be
decided at that time. You should therefore consider yourself suspended from school
pending further enquiries.
With best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
Mafalda Hopkirk
Improper Use of Magic Office
Ministry of Magic
Harry read this letter through three times in quick succession. The miserable knot in his
chest loosened slightly with the relief of Knowing he was not yet definitely expelled,
though his fears were by no means banished. Everything seemed to hang on this hearing
on the twelfth of August.
'Well?' said Uncle Vernon, recalling Harry to his surroundings. 'What now? Have they
sentenced you to anything? Do your lot have the death penalty?' he added as a hopeful
afterthought.
'I've got to go to a hearing,' said Harry.
'And they'll sentence you there?'

'I suppose so.'
'I won't give up hope, then,' said Uncle Vernon nastily.
'Well, if that's all,' said Harry, getting to his feet. He was des-perate to be alone, to think,
perhaps to send a letter to Ron, Hermione or Sirius.
'NO, IT RUDDY WELL IS NOT ALL!' bellowed Uncle Vernon. 'SIT BACK DOWN!'
'What now?' said Harry impatiently.
'DUDLEY!' roared Uncle Vernon. 'I want to know exactly what happened to my son!'
'FINE!' yelled Harry, and in his temper, red and gold sparks shot out of the end of his
wand, still clutched in his hand. All three Dursleys flinched, looking terrified.
'Dudley and 1 were in the alleyway between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria Walk,' said
Harry, speaking fast, fighting to control his temper. 'Dudley thought he'd be smart with
me, I pulled out my wand but didn't use it. Then two Dementors turned up —'
'But what ARE Dementoids?' asked Uncle Vernon furiously. 'What do they DO?'
'I told you - they suck all the happiness out of you,' said Harry, 'and if they get the
chance, they kiss you 'Kiss you?' said Uncle Vernon, his eyes popping slightly. 'Kiss you?'
'It's what they call it when they suck the soul out of your mouth.'
Aunt Petunia uttered a soft scream.
'His soul? They didn't take - he's still got his -'
She seized Dudley by the shoulders and shook him, as though testing to see whether she
could hear his soul rattling around inside him.
'Of course they didn't get his soul, you'd know if they had,' said Harry, exasperated.
'Fought 'em off, did you, son?' said Uncle Vernon loudly, with the appearance of a man
struggling to bring the conversation back on to a plane he understood. 'Gave 'em the old
one-two, did you?'
'You can't give a Dementor the old one-two,' said Harry through clenched teeth.
'Why's he all right, then?' blustered Uncle Vernon. 'Why isn't he all empty, then?'

'Because I used the Patronus -'
WHOOSH. With a clattering, a whirring of wings and a soft fall of dust, a fourth owl
came shooting out of the kitchen fireplace.
'FOR GOD'S SAKE!' roared Uncle Vernon, pulling great clumps of hair out of his
moustache, something he hadn't been driven to do in a long time. 'I WILL NOT HAVE
OWLS HERE, I WILL NOT TOLERATE THIS, I TELL YOU!'
But Harry was already pulling a roll of parchment from the owl's leg. He was so
convinced that this letter had to be from Dumbledore, explaining everything - the
Dementors, Mrs Figg, what the Ministry was up to, how he, Dumbledore, intended to sort
everything out - that for the first time in his life he was disappointed to see Sirius's
handwriting. Ignoring Uncle Vernon's ongoing rant about owls, and narrowing his eyes
against a second cloud of dust as the most recent owl look off back up the chimney,
Harry read Sirius's message.
Arthur has just told us what's happened. Don't leave the house again, whatever you do.
Harry found this such an inadequate response to everything that had happened tonight
that he turned the piece of parchment over, looking for the rest of the letter, but there was
nothing else.
And now his temper was rising again. Wasn't anybody going to say 'well done' for
fighting off two Dementors single-handed? Both Mr Weasley and Sirius were acting as
though he'd misbehaved, and were saving their tellings-off until they could ascertain how
much damage had been done.
'… a peck, 1 mean, pack of owls shooting in and out of my house. I won't have it, boy, 1
won't -'
'I can't stop the owls coming,' Harry snapped, crushing Sirius's letter in his fist.
I want the truth about what happened tonight!' barked Uncle Yi-rnon. 'If it was
Demenders who hurt Dudley, how come you've been expelled? You did you-know-what,
you've admitted it!'
Harry took a deep, steadying breath. His head was beginning to ache again. He wanted
more than anything to get out of the kitchen, and away from the Dursleys.
'I did the Patronus Charm to get rid of the Dementors,' he said, forcing himself to remain
calm. 'It's the only thing that works against them.'
'But what were Dementoids doing in Little Whinging?' said Uncle Vernon in an outraged
tone.

'Couldn't tell you,' said Harry wearily. 'No idea.'
His head was pounding in the glare of the strip-lighting now. His anger was ebbing away.
He felt drained, exhausted. The Dursleys were all staring at him.
'It's you,' said Uncle Vernon forcefully. 'It's got something to do with you, boy, I know it.
Why else would they turn up here? Why else would they be down that alleyway? You've
got to be the only - the only -' Evidently, he couldn't bring himself to say the word
'wizard'. The only you-know-what for miles.'
'I don't know why they were here.'
But at Uncle Vernon's words, Harry's exhausted brain had ground back into action. Why
had the Dementors come to Little Whinging? How could it be coincidence that they had
arrived in the alleyway where Harry was? Had they been sent? Had the Ministry of
Magic lost control of the Dementors? Had they deserted Azkaban and joined Voldemort,
as Dumbledore had predicted they would?
These Demembers guard some weirdo prison?' asked Uncle Vernon, lumbering along in
the wake of Harry's train of thought.
'Yes,' said Harry.
If only his head would stop hurting, if only he could just leave the kitchen and get to his
dark bedroom and think…
'Oho! They were coming to arrest you!' said Uncle Vernon, with the triumphant air of a
man reaching an unassailable conclusion. That's it, isn't it, boy? You're on the run from
the law!'
'Of course I'm not,' said Harry, shaking his head as though to scare off a fly, his mind
racing now.
Then why -?'
'He must have sent them,' said Harry quietly, more to himself than to Uncle Vernon.
'What's that? Who must have sent them?'
'Lord Voldemort,' said Harry.
He registered dimly how strange it was that the Dursleys, who flinched, winced and
squawked if they heard words like 'wizard', 'magic' or 'wand', could hear the name of the
most evil wizard of all time without the slightest tremor.

'Lord - hang on,' said Uncle Vernon, his face screwed up, a look of dawning
comprehension coming into his piggy eyes. 'I've heard that name… that was the one who
—'
'Murdered my parents, yes,' Harry said dully.
'But he's gone,' said Uncle Vernon impatiently, without the slightest sign that the murder
of Harry's parents might be a painful topic. That giant bloke said so. He's gone.'
'He's back,' said Harry heavily.
It felt very strange to be standing here in Aunt Petunia's surgically clean kitchen, beside
the top-of-the-range fridge and the wide-screen television, talking calmly of Lord
Voldemort to Uncle Vernon. The arrival of the Dementors in Little Whinging seemed to
have breached the great, invisible wall that divided the relentlessly non-magical world of
Privet Drive and the world beyond, Harry's two lives had somehow become fused and
everything had been turned upside-down; the Dursleys were asking for details about the
magical world, and Mrs Figg knew Albus Dumbledore; Dementors were soaring around
Little Whinging, and he might never return to Hogwarts. Harry's head throbbed more
painfully.
'Back?' whispered Aunt Petunia.
She was looking at Harry as she had never looked at him before. And all of a sudden, for
the very first time in his life, Harry fully appreciated that Aunt Petunia was his mother's
sister. He could not have said why this hit him so very powerfully at this moment. All he
knew was that he was not the only person in the room who had an inkling of what Lord
Voldemort being back might mean. Aunt Petunia had never in her life looked at him like
that before. Her large, pale eyes (so unlike her sister's) were not narrowed in dislike or
anger, they were wide and fearful. The furious pretence that Aunt Petunia had maintained
all Harry's life - that there was no magic and no world other than the world she inhabited
with Uncle Vernon - seemed to have fallen away.
'Yes,' Harry said, talking directly to Aunt Petunia now. 'He came back a month ago. I saw
him.'
Her hands found Dudley's massive leather-clad shoulders and clutched them.
'Hang on,' said Uncle Vernon, looking from his wife to Harry and back again, apparently
dazed and confused by the unprece-dented understanding that seemed to have sprung up
between them. 'Hang on. This Lord Voldything's back, you say.'
'Yes.'
The one who murdered your parents.'

'Yes.'
'And now he's sending Dismembers after you?'
'Looks like it,' said Harry.
'I see,' said Uncle Vernon, looking from his white-faced wife to Harry and hitching up his
trousers. He seemed to be swelling, his great purple face stretching before Harry's eyes.
'Well, that settles it,' he said, his shirt front straining as he inflated himself, 'you can get
out of this house, boy!'
'What?' said Harry.
'You heard me - OUT!' Uncle Vernon bellowed, and even Aunt Petunia and Dudley
jumped. 'OUT! OUT! I should've done this years ago! Owls treating the place like a rest
home, puddings exploding, half the lounge destroyed, Dudley's tail, Marge bobbing
around on the ceiling and that flying Ford Anglia - OUT! OUT! You've had it! You're
history! You're not staying here if some loony's after you, you're not endangering my
wife and son, you're not bringing trouble down on us. If you're going the same way as
your useless parents, I've had it! OUT!'
Harry stood rooted to the spot. The letters from the Ministry, Mr Weasley and Sirius were
all crushed in his left hand. Don't leave the house again, whatever you do. DO NOT
LEAVE YOUR AUNT AND UNCLE'S HOUSE.
'You heard me!' said Uncle Vernon, bending forwards now, his massive purple face
coming so close to Harry's, he actually felt flecks of spit hit his face. 'Get going! You
were all keen to leave half an hour ago! I'm right behind you! Get out and never darken
our doorstep again! Why we ever kept you in the first place, I don't know, Marge was
right, it should have been the orphanage. We were too damn soft for our own good,
thought we could squash it out of you, thought we could turn you normal, but you've
been rotten from the beginning and I've had enough - owls!'
The fifth owl zoomed down the chimney so fast it actually hit the floor before zooming
into the air again with a loud screech. Harry raised his hand to seize the letter, which was
in a scarlet envelope, but it soared straight over his head, flying directly at Aunt Petunia,
who let out a scream and ducked, her arms over her face. The owl dropped the red
envelope on her head, turned, and flew straight back up the chimney.
Harry darted forwards to pick up the letter, but Aunt Petunia beat him to it.
'You can open it if you like,' said Harry, 'but I'll hear what it says anyway. That's a
Howler.'
'Let go of it, Petunia!' roared Uncle Vernon. 'Don't touch it, it could be dangerous!'

'It's addressed to me,' said Aunt Petunia in a shaking voice. 'It's addressed to me, Vernon,
look! Mrs Petunia Dursley, The Kitchen, Number Four, Privet Drive She caught her breath, horrified. The red envelope had begun to smoke.
'Open it!' Harry urged her. 'Get it over with! It'll happen anyway.'
'No.'
Aunt Petunia's hand was trembling. She looked wildly around the kitchen as though
looking for an escape route, but too late -the envelope burst into flames. Aunt Petunia
screamed and dropped it.
An awful voice filled the kitchen, echoing in the confined space, issuing from the burning
letter on the table.
'Remember my last, Petunia.'
Aunt Petunia looked as though she might faint. She sank into the chair beside Dudley, her
face in her hands. The remains of the envelope smouldered into ash in the silence.
'What is this?' Uncle Vernon said hoarsely. 'What - I don't -Petunia?'
Aunt Petunia said nothing. Dudley was staring stupidly at his mother, his mouth hanging
open. The silence spiralled horribly. Harry was watching his aunt, utterly bewildered, his
head throbbing fit to burst.
'Petunia, dear?' said Uncle Vernon timidly. 'P-Petunia?'
She raised her head. She was still trembling. She swallowed.
'The boy - the boy will have to stay, Vernon,' she said weakly.
'W-what?'
'He stays,' she said. She was not looking at Harry. She got to her feet again.
'He… but Petunia…'
'If we throw him out, the neighbours will talk,' she said. She was rapidly regaining her
usual brisk, snappish manner, though she was still very pale. They'll ask awkward
questions, they'll want to know where he's gone. We'll have to keep him.'
Uncle Vernon was deflating like an old tyre.
'But Petunia, dear -

Aunt Petunia ignored him. She turned to Harry. 'You're to stay in your room,' she said.
'You're not to leave the house. Now get to bed.' Harry didn't move. 'Who was that Howler
from?'
'Don't ask questions,' Aunt Petunia snapped. 'Are you in touch with wizards?'
'I told you to get to bed!'
'What did it mean? Remember the last what?'
'Go to bed!'
'How come -?'
'YOU HEARD YOUR AUNT, NOW GO UP TO BED!'
— CHAPTER THREE —
The Advance Guard
I've just been attacked by Dementors and I might be expelled from llogwarts. I want to
know what's going on and when I'm going to get out of here.
Harry copied these words on to three separate pieces of parchment the moment he
reached the desk in his dark bedroom. He addressed the first to Sirius, the second to Ron
and the third to Hermione. His owl, Hedwig, was off hunting; her cage stood empty on
the desk. Harry paced the bedroom waiting for her to come back, his head pounding, his
brain too busy for sleep even though his eyes stung and itched with tiredness. His back
ached from hauling Dudley home, and the two lumps on his head where the window and
Dudley had hit him were throbbing painfully.
Up and down he paced, consumed with anger and frustration, grinding his teeth and
clenching his fists, casting angry looks out at the empty, star-strewn sky every time he
passed the window. Dementors sent to get him, Mrs Figg and Mundungus Fletcher
tailing him in secret, then suspension fromHogwarts and a hearing at the Ministry of
Magic - and still no one was telling him what was going on.
And what, what, had that Howler been about? Whose voice had echoed so horribly, so
menacingly, through the kitchen?
Why was he still trapped here without information? Why was everyone treating him like
some naughty kid? Don't do any more magic, stay in the house…
He kicked his school trunk as he passed it, but far from relieving his anger he felt worse,
as he now had a sharp pain in his toe to deal with in addition to the pain in the rest of his
body.

Just as he limped past the window, Hedwig soared through it with a soft rustle of wings
like a small ghost.
'About time!' Harry snarled, as she landed lightly on top of her cage. 'You can put that
down, I've got work for you!'
Hedwig's large, round, amber eyes gazed at him reproachfully over the dead frog
clamped in her beak.
'Come here,' said Harry, picking up the three small rolls of parchment and a leather thong
and tying the scrolls to her scaly leg. Take these straight to Sirius, Ron and Hermione and
don't come back here without good long replies. Keep pecking them till they've written
decent-length answers if you've got to. Understand?'
Hedwig gave a muffled hooting noise, her beak still full of frog.
'Get going, then,' said Harry.
She took off immediately. The moment she'd gone, Harry threw himself down on his bed
without undressing and stared at the dark ceiling. In addition to every other miserable
feeling, he now felt guilty that he'd been irritable with Hedwig; she was the only friend he
had at number four, Privet Drive. But he'd make it up to her when she came back with the
answers from Sirius, Ron and Hermione.
They were bound to write back quickly; they couldn't possibly ignore a Dementor attack.
He'd probably wake up tomorrow to three fat letters full of sympathy and plans for his
immediate removal to The Burrow. And with that comforting idea, sleep rolled over him,
stifling all further thought.
*
But Hedwig didn't return next morning. Harry spent the day in his bedroom, leaving it
only to go to the bathroom. Three times that day Aunt Petunia shoved food into his room
through the cat-flap Uncle Vernon had installed three summers ago. Every time Harry
heard her approaching he tried to question her about the Howler, but he might as well
have interrogated the doorknob for all the answers he got. Otherwise, the Dursleys kept
well clear of his bedroom. Harry couldn't see the point of forcing his company on them;
another row would achieve nothing except perhaps make him so angry he'd perform more
illegal magic.
So it went on for three whole days. Harry was alternately filled with restless energy that
made him unable to settle to anything, during which time he paced his bedroom, furious
at the whole lot of them for leaving him to stew in this mess; and with a lethargy so
complete that he could lie on his bed for an hour at a time, staring dazedly into space,
aching with dread at the thought of the Ministry hearing.

What if they ruled against him? What if he was expelled and his wand was snapped in
half? What would he do, where would he go? He could not return to living full-time with
the Dursleys, not now he knew the other world, the one to which he really belonged.
Might he be able to move into Siriuss house, as Sirius had suggested a year ago, before
he had been forced to flee from the Ministry? Would Harry be allowed to live there
alone, given that he was still underage? Or would the matter of where he went next be
decided for him? Had his breach of the International Statute of Secrecy been severe
enough to land him in a cell in Azkaban? Whenever this thought occurred, Harry
invariably slid off his bed and began pacing again.
On the fourth night after Hedwig's departure Harry was lying in one of his apathetic
phases, staring at the ceiling, his exhausted mind quite blank, when his uncle entered his
bedroom. Harry looked slowly around at him. Uncle Vernon was wearing his best suit
and an expression of enormous smugness.
'We're going out,' he said.
'Sorry?'
'We - that is to say, your aunt, Dudley and I - are going out.'
'Fine,' said Harry dully, looking back at the ceiling.
'You are not to leave your bedroom while we are away.'
'OK.'
'You are not to touch the television, the stereo, or any of our possessions.'
'Right.'
'You are not to steal food from the fridge.'
'OK.'
'I am going to lock your door.'
'You do that.'
Uncle Vernon glared at Harry, clearly suspicious of this lack of argument, then stomped
out of the room and closed the door behind him. Harry heard the key turn in the lock and
Uncle Vernon's footsteps walking heavily down the stairs. A few minutes later he heard
the slamming of car doors, the rumble of an engine, and the unmistakeable sound of the
car sweeping out of the drive.

Harry had no particular feeling about the Dursleys leaving. It made no difference to him
whether they were in the house or not. He could not even summon the energy to get up
and turn on his bedroom light. The room grew steadily darker around him as he lay
listening to the night sounds through the window he kept open all the time, waiting for
the blessed moment when Hedwig returned. The empty house creaked around him. The
pipes gurgled. Harry lay there in a kind of stupor, thinking of nothing, suspended in
misery.
Then, quite distinctly, he heard a crash in the kitchen below. He sat bolt upright, listening
intently. The Dursleys couldn't be back, it was much too soon, and in any case he hadn't
heard their car.
There was silence for a few seconds, then voices. Burglars, he thought, sliding off the
bed on to his feet - but a split second later it occurred to him that burglars would keep
their voices down, and whoever was moving around in the kitchen was certainly not
troubling to do so.
He snatched up his wand from the bedside table and stood facing his bedroom door,
listening with all his might. Next moment, he jumped as the lock gave a loud click and
his door swung open. Harry stood motionless, staring through the open doorway at the
dark upstairs landing, straining his ears for further sounds, but none came. He hesitated
for a moment, then moved swiftly and silently out of his room to the head of the stairs.
His heart shot upwards into his throat. There were people standing in the shadowy hall
below, silhouetted against the streetlight glowing through the glass door; eight or nine of
them, all, as far as he could see, looking up at him.
'Lower your wand, boy, before you take someone's eye out,' said a low, growling voice.
Harry's heart was thumping uncontrollably. He knew that voice, but he did not lower his
wand.
'Professor Moody?' he said uncertainly.
'I don't know so much about "Professor",' growled the voice, 'never got round to much
teaching, did I? Get down here, we want to see you properly.'
Harry lowered his wand slightly but did not relax his grip on it, nor did he move. He had
very good reason to be suspicious. He had recently spent nine months in what he had
thought was Mad-Eye Moody's company only to find out that it wasn't Moody at all, but
an impostor; an impostor, moreover, who had tried to kill Harry before being unmasked.
But before he could make a decision about what to do next, a second, slightly hoarse
voice floated upstairs.
'It's all right, Harry. We've come to take you away.'

Harry's heart leapt. He knew that voice, too, though he hadn't heard it for over a year.
'P-Professor Lupin?' he said disbelievingly. 'Is that you?'
'Why are we all standing in the dark?' said a third voice, this one completely unfamiliar, a
woman's. 'Lumos.'
A wand-tip flared, illuminating the hall with magical light. Harry blinked. The people
below were crowded around the foot of the stairs, gazing up at him intently, some craning
their heads for a better look.
Remus Lupin stood nearest to him. Though still quite young, Lupin looked tired and
rather ill; he had more grey hairs than when Harry had last said goodbye to him and his
robes were more patched and shabbier than ever. Nevertheless, he was smiling broadly at
Harry, who tried to smile back despite his state of shock.
'Oooh, he looks just like I thought he would,' said the witch who was holding her lit wand
aloft. She looked the youngest there; she had a pale heart-shaped face, dark twinkling
eyes, and short spiky hair that was a violent shade of violet. 'Wotcher, Harry!'
'Yeah, I see what you mean, Remus,' said a bald black wizard standing furthest back - he
had a deep, slow voice and wore a single gold hoop in his ear - 'he looks exactly like
James.'
'Except the eyes,' said a wheezy-voiced, silver-haired wizard at the back. 'Lily's eyes.'
Mad-Eye Moody, who had long grizzled grey hair and a large chunk missing from his
nose, was squinting suspiciously at Harry through his mismatched eyes. One eye was
small, dark and beady, the other large, round and electric blue - the magical eye that
could see through walls, doors and the back of Moody's own head. 'Are you quite sure it's
him, Lupin?' he growled. 'It'd be a nice lookout if we bring back some Death Eater
impersonating him. We ought to ask him something only the real Potter would know.
Unless anyone brought any Veritaserum?'
'Harry, what form does your Patronus take?' Lupin asked. 'A stag,' said Harry nervously.
That's him, Mad-Eye,' said Lupin.
Very conscious of everybody still staring at him, Harry descended the stairs, stowing his
wand in the back pocket of his jeans as he came.
'Don't put your wand there, boy!' roared Moody. 'What if it ignited? Better wizards than
you have lost buttocks, you know!'
'Who d'you know who's lost a buttock?' the violet-haired woman asked Mad-Eye
interestedly.

'Never you mind, you just keep your wand out of your back pocket!' growled Mad-Eye.
'Elementary wand-safety, nobody bothers about it any more.' He stumped off towards the
kitchen. 'And I saw that,' he added irritably, as the woman rolled her eyes towards the
ceiling.
Lupin held out his hand and shook Harry's. 'How are you?' he asked, looking closely at
Harry. T-fine…'
Harry could hardly believe this was real. Four weeks with nothing, not the tiniest hint of a
plan to remove him from Privet Drive, and suddenly a whole bunch of wizards was
standing matter-of-factly in the house as though this was a long-standing arrangement.
He glanced at the people surrounding Lupin; they were still gazing avidly at him. He felt
very conscious of the fact that he had not combed his hair for four days.
'I'm - you're really lucky the Dursleys are out…' he mumbled.
'Lucky, ha!' said the violet-haired woman. 'It was me who lured them out of the way. Sent
a letter by Muggle post telling them they'd been short-listed for the All-England Best
Kept Suburban Lawn Competition. They're heading off to the prize-giving right now… or
they think they are.'
Harry had a fleeting vision of Uncle Vernon's face when he realised there was no AllEngland Best Kept Suburban Lawn Competition.
'We are leaving, aren't we?' he asked. 'Soon?'
Almost at once,' said Lupin, 'we're just waiting for the all-clear.'
'Where are we going? The Burrow?' Harry asked hopefully.
'Not The Burrow, no,' said Lupin, motioning Harry towards the kitchen; the little knot of
wizards followed, all still eyeing Harry curiously. Too risky. We've set up Headquarters
somewhere un-detectable. It's taken a while…'
Mad-Eye Moody was now sitting at the kitchen table swigging from a hip flask, his
magical eye spinning in all directions, taking in the Dursleys' many labour-saving
appliances.
'This is Alastor Moody, Harry' Lupin continued, pointing towards Moody.
'Yeah, I know,' said Harry uncomfortably. It felt odd to be intro-duced to somebody he'd
thought he'd known for a year.
'And this is Nymphadora -'
'Don't call me Nymphadora, Remus,' said the young witch with a shudder, 'it's Tonks.'

'Nymphadora Tonks, who prefers to be known by her surname only,' finished Lupin.
'So would you if your fool of a mother had called you Nymphadora,' muttered Tonks.
'And this is Kingsley Shacklebolt.' He indicated the tall black wizard, who bowed.
'Elphias Doge.' The wheezy-voiced wizard nodded. 'Dedalus Diggle -'
'We've met before,' squeaked the excitable Diggle, dropping his violet-coloured top hat.
'Emmeline Vance.' A stately-looking witch in an emerald green shawl inclined her head.
'Sturgis Podmore.' A square-jawed wizard with thick straw-coloured hair winked. 'And
Hestia Jones.' A pink-cheeked, black-haired witch waved from next to the toaster.
Harry inclined his head awkwardly at each of them as they were introduced. He wished
they would look at something other than him; it was as though he had suddenly been
ushered on-stage. He also wondered why so many of them were there.
'A surprising number of people volunteered to come and get you,' said Lupin, as though
he had read Harry's mind; the corners of his mouth twitched slightly.
'Yeah, well, the more the better,' said Moody darkly. 'We're your guard, Potter.'
'We're just waiting for the signal to tell us it's safe to set off,' said Lupin, glancing out of
the kitchen window. 'We've got about fifteen minutes.'
'Very clean, aren't they, these Muggles?' said the witch called Tonks, who was looking
around the kitchen with great interest. 'My dad's Muggle-born and he's a right old slob. I
suppose it varies, just as it does with wizards?'
'Er - yeah,' said Harry. 'Look -' he turned back to Lupin, 'what's going on, I haven't heard
anything from anyone, what's Vol—?'
Several of the witches and wizards made odd hissing noises; Dedalus Diggle dropped his
hat again and Moody growled, 'Shut up!'
What?' said Harry.
'We're not discussing anything here, it's too risky,' said Moody, turning his normal eye on
Harry. His magical eye remained focused on the ceiling. 'Damn it,' he added angrily,
putting a hand up to the magical eye, 'it keeps getting stuck - ever since that scum wore
it.'
And with a nasty squelching sound much like a plunger being pulled from a sink, he
popped out his eye.
'Mad-Eye, you do know that's disgusting, don't you?' said Tonks conversationally.

'Get me a glass of water, would you, Harry,' requested Moody.
Harry crossed to the dishwasher, took out a clean glass and filled it with water at the sink,
still watched eagerly by the band of wizards. Their relentless staring was starting to
annoy him.
'Cheers,' said Moody, when Harry handed him the glass. He dropped the magical eyeball
into the water and prodded it up and down; the eye whizzed around, staring at them all in
turn. 'I want three hundred and sixty degrees visibility on the return journey.'
'How're we getting - wherever we're going?' Harry asked.
'Brooms,' said Lupin. 'Only way. You're too young to Apparate, they'll be watching the
Floo Network and it's more than our life's worth to set up an unauthorised Portkey.'
'Remus says you're a good flier,' said Kingsley Shacklebolt in his deep voice.
'He's excellent,' said Lupin, who was checking his watch. 'Anyway, you'd better go and
get packed, Harry, we want to be ready to go when the signal comes.'
'I'll come and help you,' said Tonks brightly.
She followed Harry back into the hall and up the stairs, looking around with much
curiosity and interest.
'Funny place,' she said. 'It's a bit too clean, d'you know what 1 mean? Bit unnatural. Oh,
this is better,' she added, as they entered Harry's bedroom and he turned on the light.
His room was certainly much messier than the rest of the house. Confined to it for four
days in a very bad mood, Harry had not bothered tidying up after himself. Most of the
books he owned were strewn over the floor where he'd tried to distract himself with each
in turn and thrown it aside; Hedwig's cage needed cleaning out and was starting to smell;
and his trunk lay open, revealing a jumbled mixture of Muggle clothes and wizards' robes
that had spilled on to the floor around it.
Harry started picking up books and throwing them hastily into his trunk. Tonks paused at
his open wardrobe to look critically at her reflection in the mirror on the inside of the
door.
'You know, I don't think violet's really my colour,' she said pen-sivey, tugging at a lock of
spiky hair. 'D'you think it makes me look a bit peaky?'
'Er -' said Harry, looking up at her over the top of Quidditch Teams of Britain and
Ireland.

'Yeah, it does,' said Tonks decisively. She screwed up her eyes in a strained expression as
though she was struggling to remember something. A second later, her hair had turned
bubble-gum pink.
'How did you do that?' said Harry, gaping at her as she opened her eyes again.
'I'm a Metamorphmagus,' she said, looking back at her reflec-tion and turning her head so
that she could see her hair from all directions. 'It means I can change my appearance at
will,' she added, spotting Harrys puzzled expression in the mirror behind her. 'I was born
one. I got top marks in Concealment and Disguise during Auror training without any
study at all, it was great.'
'You're an Auror?' said Harry, impressed. Being a Dark-wizard-catcher was the only
career he'd ever considered after Hogwarts.
'Yeah,' said Tonks, looking proud. 'Kingsley is as well, he's a bit higher up than me,
though. I only qualified a year ago. Nearly failed on Stealth and Tracking. I'm dead
clumsy, did you hear me break that plate when we arrived downstairs?'
'Can you learn how to be a Metamorphmagus?' Harry asked her, straightening up,
completely forgetting about packing.
Tonks chuckled.
'Bet you wouldn't mind hiding that scar sometimes, eh?'
Her eyes found the lightning-shaped scar on Harrys forehead.
'No, I wouldn't mind,' Harry mumbled, turning away. He did not like people staring at his
scar.
'Well, you'll have to learn the hard way, I'm afraid,' said Tonks. 'Metamorphmagi are
really rare, they're born, not made. Most wizards need to use a wand, or potions, to
change their appearance. But we've got to get going, Harry, we're supposed to be
packing,' she added guiltily, looking around at all the mess on the floor.
'Oh — yeah,' said Harry, grabbing a few more books.
'Don't be stupid, it'll be much quicker if I - pack!' cried Tonks, waving her wand in a
long, sweeping movement over the floor.
Books, clothes, telescope and scales all soared into the air and flew pell-mell into the
trunk.
'It's not very neat,' said Tonks, walking over to the trunk and looking down at the jumble
inside. 'My mums got this knack of getting stuff to fit itself in neatly - she even gets the

socks to fold themselves - but I've never mastered how she does it - it's a kind of flick -'
She flicked her wand hopefully.
One of Harry's socks gave a feeble sort of wiggle and flopped back on top of the mess in
the trunk.
'Ah, well,' said Tonks, slamming the trunk's lid shut, 'at least it's all in. That could do with
a bit of cleaning, too.' She pointed her wand at Hedwig's cage. 'Scourgify.' A few feathers
and droppings vanished. 'Well, that's a bit better - I've never quite got the hang of these
householdy sort of spells. Right - got everything? Cauldron? Broom? Wow! - A
FireboltT
Her eyes widened as they fell on the broomstick in Harry's right hand It was his pride and
joy, a gift from Sirius, an international-standard broomstick.
'And I'm still riding a Comet Two Sixty' said Tonks enviously. 'Ah well… wand still in
your jeans? Both buttocks still on? OK, let's go. Locomotor trunk.'
Harry's trunk rose a few inches into the air. Holding her wand like a conductor's baton,
Tonks made the trunk hover across the room and out of the door ahead of them, Hedwig's
cage in her left hand. Harry followed her down the stairs carrying his broomstick.
Back in the kitchen Moody had replaced his eye, which was spinning so fast after its
cleaning it made Harry feel sick to look at it. Kingsley Shacklebolt and Sturgis Podmore
were examining the microwave and Hestia Jones was laughing at a potato peeler she had
come across while rummaging in the drawers. Lupin was sealing a letter addressed to the
Dursleys.
'Excellent,' said Lupin, looking up as Tonks and Harry entered. We've got about a minute,
I think. We should probably get out into the garden so we're ready. Harry, I've left a letter
telling your aunt and uncle not to worry They won't,' said Harry.
- that you're safe -'That'll just depress them.'
- and you'll see them next summer.'
'Do I have to?'
Lupin smiled but made no answer.
'Come here, boy,' said Moody gruffly, beckoning Harry towards him with his wand. 'I
need to Disillusion you.'
'You need to what?' said Harry nervously.

'Disillusionment Charm,' said Moody, raising his wand. 'Lupin says you've got an
Invisibility Cloak, but it won't stay on while we're flying; this'll disguise you better. Here
you go He rapped him hard on the top of the head and Harry felt a curious sensation as though
Moody had just smashed an egg there;
cold trickles seemed to be running down his body from the point the wand had struck.
'Nice one, Mad-Eye,' said Tonks appreciatively, staring at Harry's midriff.
Harry looked down at his body, or rather, what had been his body, for it didn't look
anything like his any more. It was not invisible; it had simply taken on the exact colour
and texture of the kitchen unit behind him. He seemed to have become a human
chameleon.
'Come on,' said Moody, unlocking the back door with his wand.
They all stepped outside on to Uncle Vernon's beautifully kept lawn.
'Clear night,' grunted Moody, his magical eye scanning the heavens. 'Could've done with
a bit more cloud cover. Right, you,' he barked at Harry, 'we're going to be flying in close
formation. Tonks'll be right in front of you, keep close on her tail. Lupin'll be covering
you from below I'm going to be behind you. The rest'll be circling us. We don't break
ranks for anything, got me? If one of us is killed 'Is that likely?' Harry asked apprehensively, but Moody ignored him.
- the others keep flying, don't stop, don't break ranks. If they take out all of us and you
survive, Harry, the rear guard are standing by to take over; keep flying east and they'll
join you.'
'Stop being so cheerful, Mad-Eye, he'll think we're not taking this seriously' said Tonks,
as she strapped Harry's trunk and Hedwig's cage into a harness hanging from her broom.
'I'm just telling the boy the plan,' growled Moody. 'Our jobs to deliver him safely to
Headquarters and if we die in the attempt 'No one's going to die,' said Kingsley Shacklebolt in his deep, calming voice.
'Mount your brooms, that's the first signal!' said Lupin sharply pointing into the sky.
Far, far above them, a shower of bright red sparks had flared among the stars, Harry
recognised them at once as wand sparks. He swung his right leg over his Firebolt, gripped
its handle tightly and felt it vibrating very slightly, as though it was as keen as he was to
be up in the air once more.

'Second signal, let's go!' said Lupin loudly as more sparks, green this time, exploded high
above them.
Harry kicked off hard from the ground. The cool night air rushed through his hair as the
neat square gardens of Privet Drive fell away, shrinking rapidly into a patchwork of dark
greens and blacks, and every thought of the Ministry hearing was swept from his mind as
though the rush of air had blown it out of his head. He felt as though his heart was going
to explode with pleasure; he was flying again, flying away from Privet Drive as he'd been
fantasising about all summer, he was going home… for a few glorious moments, all his
problems seemed to recede to nothing, insignificant in the vast, starry sky.
'Hard left, hard left, there's a Muggle looking up!' shouted Moody from behind him.
Tonks swerved and Harry followed her, watching his trunk swinging wildly beneath her
broom. 'We need more height… give it another quarter of a mile!'
Harry's eyes watered in the chill as they soared upwards; he could see nothing below now
but tiny pinpricks of light that were car headlights and streetlamps. Two of those tiny
lights might belong to Uncle Vernon's car… the Dursleys would be heading back to their
empty house right now, full of rage about the non-existent Lawn Competition… and
Harry laughed aloud at the thought, though his voice was drowned by the flapping robes
of the others, the creaking of the harness holding his trunk and the cage, and the whoosh
of the wind in their ears as they sped through the air. He had not felt this alive in a month,
or this happy.
'Bearing south!' shouted Mad-Eye. Town ahead!'
They soared right to avoid passing directly over the glittering spider's web of lights
below.
'Bear southeast and keep climbing, there's some low cloud ahead we can lose ourselves
in!' called Moody.
'We're not going through clouds!' shouted Tonks angrily, 'we'll get soaked, Mad-Eye!'
Harry was relieved to hear her say this; his hands were growing numb on the Firebolt's
handle. He wished he had thought to put on a coat; he was starting to shiver.
They altered their course every now and then according to Mad-Eyes instructions. Harrys
eyes were screwed up against the rush of icy wind that was starting to make his ears ache;
he could remember being this cold on a broom only once before, during the Quidditch
match against Hufflepuff in his third year, which had taken place in a storm. The guard
around him was circling continuously like giant birds of prey. Harry lost track of time.
He wondered how long they had been flying, it felt like an hour at least.
Turning southwest!' yelled Moody 'We want to avoid the motorway!'

Harry was now so chilled he thought longingly of the snug, dry interiors of the cars
streaming along below, then, even more longingly, of travelling by Floo powder; it might
be uncomfortable to spin around in fireplaces but it was at least warm in the flames…
Kingsley Shacklebolt swooped around him, bald pate and earring gleaming slightly in the
moonlight… now Emmeline Vance was on his right, her wand out, her head turning left
and right… then she, too, swooped over him, to be replaced by Sturgis Podmore…
'We ought to double back for a bit, just to make sure we're not being followed!' Moody
shouted.
'ARE YOU MAD, MAD-EYE?' Tonks screamed from the front. We're all frozen to our
brooms! If we keep going off-course we're not going to get there until next week!
Besides, we're nearly there now!'
Time to start the descent!' came Lupin's voice. 'Follow Tonks, Harry!'
Harry followed Tonks into a dive. They were heading for the largest collection of lights
he had yet seen, a huge, sprawling crisscrossing mass, glittering in lines and grids,
interspersed with patches of deepest black. Lower and lower they flew, until Harry could
see individual headlights and streetlamps, chimneys and television aerials. He wanted to
reach the ground very much, though he felt sure someone would have to unfreeze him
from his broom.
'Here we go!' called Tonks, and a few seconds later she had landed.
Harry touched down right behind her and dismounted on a patch of unkempt grass in the
middle of a small square. Tonks was already unbuckling Harry's trunk. Shivering, Harry
looked around. The grimy fronts of the surrounding houses were not welcoming; some of
them had broken windows, glimmering dully in the light fro the streetlamps, paint was
peeling from many of the doors and heaps of rubbish lay outside several sets of front
steps.
'Where are we?' Harry asked, but Lupin said quietly, 'In a minute.'
Moody was rummaging in his cloak, his gnarled hands clumsy with cold.
'Got it,' he muttered, raising what looked like a silver cigarette lighter into the air and
clicking it.
The nearest streetlamp went out with a pop. He clicked the unlighter again; the next lamp
went out; he kept clicking until every lamp in the square was extinguished and the only
remaining light came from curtained windows and the sickle moon overhead.
'Borrowed it from Dumbledore,' growled Moody, pocketing the Put-Outer. That'll take
care of any Muggles looking out of the window, see? Now come on, quick.'

He took Harry by the arm and led him from the patch of grass, across the road and on to
the pavement; Lupin and Tonks followed, carrying Harry's trunk between them, the rest
of the guard, all with their wands out, flanking them.
The muffled pounding of a stereo was coming from an upper window in the nearest
house. A pungent smell of rotting rubbish came from the pile of bulging bin-bags just
inside the broken gate.
'Here,' Moody muttered, thrusting a piece of parchment towards Harry's Disillusioned
hand and holding his lit wand close to it, so as to illuminate the writing. 'Read quickly
and memorise.'
Harry looked down at the piece of paper. The narrow handwriting was vaguely familiar.
It said:
The Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix may be found at number twelve,
Grimmauld Place, London.
— CHAPTER FOUR — 
Number Twelve, Grimmauld Place
ʹWhatʹs the Order of the ‐?ʹ Harry began. 
ʹNot here, boy!ʹ snarled Moody. ʹWait till weʹre inside!ʹ 
He pulled the piece of parchment out of Harryʹs hand and set fire to it with his 
wand‐tip. As the message curled into flames and floated to the ground, Harry 
looked around at the houses again. They were standing outside number eleven; 
he looked to the left and saw number ten; to the right, however, was number 
thirteen. 
ʹBut whereʹs ‐?ʹ 
Think about what youʹve just memorised,ʹ said Lupin quietly. 
Harry thought, and no sooner had he reached the part about number twelve, 
Grimmauld Place, than a battered door emerged out of nowhere between 
numbers eleven and thirteen, followed swiftly by dirty walls and grimy 
windows. It was as though an extra house had inflated, pushing those on either 
side out of its way. Harry gaped at it. The stereo in number eleven thudded on. 
Apparently the Muggles inside hadnʹt felt anything. 

ʹCome on, hurry,ʹ growled Moody, prodding Harry in the back. 
Harry walked up the worn stone steps, staring at the newly materialised door. Its 
black paint was shabby and scratched. The silver doorknocker was in the form of 
a twisted serpent. There was no keyhole or letterbox. 
Lupin pulled out his wand and tapped the door once. Harry heard many loud, 
metallic clicks and what sounded like the clatter of a chain. The door creaked 
open. 
ʹGet in quick, Harry,ʹ Lupin whispered, ʹbut donʹt go far inside and donʹt touch 
anything.ʹ 
Harry stepped over the threshold into the almost total darkness of the hall. He 
could smell damp, dust and a sweetish, rotting smell; the place had the feeling of 
a derelict building. He looked over his shoulder and saw the others filing in 
behind him, Lupin and Tonks carrying his trunk and Hedwigʹs cage. Moody was 
standing on the top step releasing the balls of light the Put‐Outer had stolen from 
the streetlamps; they flew back to their bulbs and the square glowed 
momentarily with orange light before Moody limped inside and closed the front 
door, so that the darkness in the hall became complete. 
ʹHere ‐ʹ 
He rapped Harry hard over the head with his wand; Harry felt as though 
something hot was trickling down his back this time and knew that the 
Disillusionment Charm must have lifted. 
ʹNow stay still, everyone, while I give us a bit of light in here,ʹ Moody whispered. 
The othersʹ hushed voices were giving Harry an odd feeling of foreboding; it was 
as though they had just entered the house of a dying person. He heard a soft 
hissing noise and then old‐fashioned gas lamps sputtered into life all along the 
walls, casting a flickering insubstantial light over the peeling wallpaper and 
threadbare carpet of a long, gloomy hallway, where a cobwebby chandelier 
glimmered overhead and age‐blackened portraits hung crooked on the walls. 
Harry heard something scuttling behind the skirting board. Both the chandelier 
and the candelabra on a rickety table nearby were shaped like serpents. 
There were hurried footsteps and Rons mother, Mrs Weasley, emerged from a 
door at the far end of the hall. She was beaming in welcome as she hurried 

towards them, though Harry noticed that she was rather thinner and paler than 
she had been last time he had seen her. 
ʹOh, Harry, itʹs lovely to see you!ʹ she whispered, pulling him into a rib‐cracking 
hug before holding him at armʹs length and examining him critically. ʹYouʹre 
looking peaky; you need feeding up, but youʹll have to wait a bit for dinner, Iʹm 
afraid.ʹ 
She turned to the gang of wizards behind him and whispered urgently, ʹHeʹs just 
arrived, the meetingʹs started.ʹ 
The wizards behind Harry all made noises of interest and excitement and began 
filing past him towards the door through which Mrs Weasley had just come. 
Harry made to follow Lupin, but Mrs Weasley held him back. 
ʹNo, Harry, the meetings only for members of the Order. Ron and Hermione are 
upstairs, you can wait with them until the meetings over, then weʹll have dinner. 
And keep your voice down in the hall,ʹ she added in an urgent whisper. 
ʹWhy?ʹ 
ʹI donʹt want anything to wake up.ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou ‐?ʹ 
ʹIʹll explain later, Iʹve got to hurry, Iʹm supposed to be at the meeting ‐ Iʹll just 
show you where youʹre sleeping.ʹ 
Pressing her finger to her lips, she led him on tiptoe past a pair of long, moth‐
eaten curtains, behind which Harry supposed there must be another door, and 
after skirting a large umbrella stand that looked as though it had been made 
from a severed trollʹs leg they started up the dark staircase, passing a row of 
shrunken heads mounted on plaques on the wall. A closer look showed Harry 
that the heads belonged to house‐elves. All of them had the same rather snout‐
like nose. 
Harryʹs bewilderment deepened with every step he took. What on earth were 
they doing in a house that looked as though it belonged to the darkest of 
wizards? 
ʹMrs Weasley, why ‐?ʹ 

ʹRon and Hermione will explain everything, dear, Iʹve really got to dash,ʹ Mrs 
Weasley whispered distractedly. There ‐ʹ they had reached the second landing, ʹ‐ 
youʹre the door on the right. Iʹll call you when itʹs over.ʹ 
And she hurried off downstairs again. 
Harry crossed the dingy landing, turned the bedroom doorknob, which was 
shaped like a serpents head, and opened the door. 
He caught a brief glimpse of a gloomy high‐ceilinged, twin‐bedded room; then 
there was a loud twittering noise, followed by an even louder shriek, and his 
vision was completely obscured by a large quantity of very bushy hair. 
Hermione had thrown herself on to him in a hug that nearly knocked him flat, 
while Ronʹs tiny owl, Pigwidgeon, zoomed excitedly round and round their 
heads. 
ʹHARRY! Ron, heʹs here, Harrys here! We didnʹt hear you arrive! Oh, how are 
you? Are you all right? Have you been furious with us? I bet you have, I know 
our letters were useless ‐ but we couldnʹt tell you anything, Dumbledore made us 
swear we wouldnʹt, oh, weʹve got so much to tell you, and youʹve got things to 
tell us ‐ the Dementors! When we heard ‐ and that Ministry hearing ‐ itʹs just 
outrageous, Iʹve looked it all up, they canʹt expel you, they just canʹt, thereʹs 
provision in the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery for 
the use of magic in life‐threatening situations ‐ʹ 
ʹLet him breathe, Hermione,ʹ said Ron, grinning as he closed the door behind 
Harry. He seemed to have grown several more inches during their month apart, 
making him taller and more gangly looking than ever, though the long nose, 
bright red hair and freckles were the same. 
Still beaming, Hermione let go of Harry, but before she could say another word 
there was a soft whooshing sound and something white soared from the top of a 
dark wardrobe and landed gently on Harrys shoulder. 
ʹHedwig!ʹ 
The snowy owl clicked her beak and nibbled his ear affectionately as Harry 
stroked her feathers. 
ʹSheʹs been in a right state,ʹ said Ron. ʹPecked us half to death when she brought 
your last letters, look at this ‐ʹ 

He showed Harry the index finger ol his right hand, which sported a half‐healed 
but clearly deep cut. 
ʹOh, yeah,ʹ Harry said. ʹSorry about that, but I wanted answers, you know ‐ʹ 
ʹWe wanted to give them to you, mate,ʹ said Ron. ʹHermione was going spare, 
she kept saying youʹd do something stupid if you were stuck all on your own 
without news, but Dumbledore made us ‐ʹ 
ʹ‐ swear not to tell me,ʹ said Harry. ʹYeah, Hermioneʹs already said. ʹ 
The warm glow that had flared inside him at the sight of his two best friends was 
extinguished as something icy flooded the pit of his stomach. All of a sudden ‐ 
after yearning to see them for a solid month — he felt he would rather Ron and 
Hermione left him alone. 
There was a strained silence in which Harry stroked Hedwig automatically, not 
looking at either of the others. 
ʹHe seemed to think it was best,ʹ said Hermione rather breathlessly. 
ʹDumbledore, I mean.ʹ 
ʹRight,ʹ said Harry. He noticed that her hands, too, bore the marks of Hedwigs 
beak and found that he was not at all sorry. 
ʹI think he thought you were safest with the Muggles ‐ʹ Ron began. 
ʹYeah?ʹ said Harry, raising his eyebrows. ʹHave either of you been attacked by 
Dementors this summer?ʹ 
ʹWell, no ‐ but thatʹs why heʹs had people from the Order of the Phoenix tailing 
you all the time ‐ʹ 
Harry felt a great jolt in his guts as though he had just missed a step going 
downstairs. So everyone had known he was being followed, except him. 
ʹDidnʹt work that well, though, did it?ʹ said Harry, doing his utmost to keep his 
voice even. ʹHad to look after myself after all, didnʹt I?ʹ 

ʹHe was so angry,ʹ said Hermione, in an almost awestruck voice. ʹDumbledore. 
We saw him. When he found out Mundungus had left before his shift had ended. 
He was scary.ʹ 
ʹWell, Iʹm glad he left,ʹ Harry said coldly. ʹIf he hadnʹt, I wouldnʹt have done 
magic and Dumbledore would probably have left me at Privet Drive all summer.ʹ 
ʹArenʹt you… arenʹt you worried about the Ministry of Magic hearing?ʹ said 
Hermione quietly. 
ʹNo,ʹ Harry lied defiantly. He walked away from them, looking around, with 
Hedwig nestled contentedly on his shoulder, but this room was not likely to raise 
his spirits. It was dank and dark. A blank stretch of canvas in an ornate picture 
frame was all that relieved the bareness of the peeling walls, and as Harry passed 
it he thought he heard someone, who was lurking out of sight, snigger. 
ʹSo whyʹs Dumbledore been so keen to keep me in the dark?ʹ 
Harry asked, still trying hard to keep his voice casual. ʹDid you ‐ er ‐ bother to 
ask him at all?ʹ 
He glanced up just in time to see them exchanging a look that told him he was 
behaving just as they had feared he would. It did nothing to improve his temper. 
ʹWe told Dumbledore we wanted to tell you what was going on,ʹ said Ron. ʹWe 
did, mate. But heʹs really busy now, weʹve only seen him twice since we came 
here and he didnʹt have much time, he just made us swear not to tell you 
important stuff when we wrote, he said the owls might be intercepted.ʹ 
ʹHe could stillʹve kept me informed if heʹd wanted to,ʹ Harry said shortly. ʹYouʹre 
not telling me he doesnʹt know ways to send messages without owls.ʹ 
Hermione glanced at Ron and then said, ʹI thought that, too. But he didnʹt want 
you to know anything.ʹ 
ʹMaybe he thinks 1 canʹt be trusted,ʹ said Harry, watching their expressions. 
ʹDonʹt be thick,ʹ said Ron, looking highly disconcerted. 
ʹOr that I canʹt take care of myself.ʹ 

ʹOf course he doesnʹt think that!ʹ said Hermione anxiously. 
ʹSo how come I have to stay at the Dursleysʹ while you two get to join in 
everything thatʹs going on here?ʹ said Harry, the words tumbling over one 
another in a rush, his voice growing louder with every word. ʹHow come you 
two are allowed to know everything thatʹs going on?ʹ 
ʹWeʹre not!ʹ Ron interrupted. ʹMum wonʹt let us near the meetings, she says weʹre 
too young ‐ʹ 
But before he knew it, Harry was shouting. 
ʹSO YOU HAVENʹT BEEN IN THE MEETINGS, BIG DEAL! YOUʹVE STILL 
BEEN HERE, HAVENʹT YOU? YOUʹVE STILL BEEN TOGETHER! ME, IʹVE 
BEEN STUCK AT THE DURSLEYSʹ FOR A MONTH! AND IʹVE HANDLED 
MORE THAN YOU TWOʹVE EVER MANAGED AND DUMBLEDORE KNOWS 
IT ‐WHO SAVED THE PHILOSOPHERʹS STONE? WHO GOT RID OF RIDDLE? 
WHO SAVED BOTH YOUR SKINS FROM THE DEMENTORS?ʹ 
Every bitter and resentful thought Harry had had in the past month was pouring 
out of him: his frustration at the lack of news, the hurt that they had all been 
together without him, his fury at being followed and not told about it ‐ all the 
feelings he was half‐ashamed of finally burst their boundaries. Hedwig took 
fright at the noise and soared off to the top of the wardrobe again; Pigwidgeon 
twittered in alarm and zoomed even taster around their heads. 
ʹWHO HAD TO GET PAST DRAGONS AND SPHINXES AND EVERY OTHER 
FOUL THING LAST YEAR? WHO SAW HIM COME BACK? WHO HAD TO 
ESCAPE FROM HIM? ME!ʹ 
Ron was standing there with his mouth half‐open, clearly stunned and at a loss 
for anything to say, whilst Hermione looked on the verge of tears. 
ʹBUT WHY SHOULD I KNOW WHATʹS GOING ON? WHY SHOULD ANYONE 
BOTHER TO TELL ME WHATʹS BEEN HAPPENING?ʹ 
ʹHarry, we wanted to tell you, we really did ‐ʹ Hermione began. 
ʹCANTʹVE WANTED TO THAT MUCH, CAN YOU, OR YOUʹD HAVE SENT 
ME AN OWL, BUT DUMBLEDORE MADE YOU SWEAR ‐

Well, he did ‐ʹ 
ʹFOUR WEEKS IʹVE BEEN STUCK IN PRIVET DRIVE, NICKING PAPERS OUT 
OF BINS TO TRY AND FIND OUT WHATʹS BEEN GOING ON ‐ʹ 
We wanted to ‐ʹ 
ʹI SUPPOSE YOUʹVE BEEN HAVING A REAL LAUGH, HAVENʹT YOU, ALL 
HOLED UP HERE TOGETHER ‐ʹ 
ʹNo, honest ‐ʹ 
ʹHarry weʹre really sorry!ʹ said Hermione desperately, her eyes now sparkling 
with tears. ʹYouʹre absolutely right, Harry ‐ Iʹd be furious if it was me!ʹ 
Harry glared at her, still breathing deeply, then turned away from them again, 
pacing up and down. Hedwig hooted glumly from the top of the wardrobe. 
There was a long pause, broken only by the mournful creak of the floorboards 
below Harryʹs feet. 
ʹWhat is this place, anyway?ʹ he shot at Ron and Hermione. 
ʹHeadquarters of the Order of the Phoenix,ʹ said Ron at once. 
ʹIs anyone going to bother telling me what the Order of the Phoenix ‐?ʹ 
ʹItʹs a secret society,ʹ said Hermione quickly. ʹDumbledoreʹs in charge, he 
founded it. Itʹs the people who fought against You‐Know‐Who last time.ʹ 
ʹWhoʹs in it?ʹ said Harry, coming to a halt with his hands in his pockets. 
ʹQuite a few people ‐ʹ 
ʹWeʹve met about twenty of them,ʹ said Ron, ʹbut we think there are more.ʹ 
Harry glared at them. 
ʹWell?ʹ he demanded, looking from one to the other. 
ʹEr,ʹ said Ron. ʹWell what?ʹ 

ʹVoldemort!ʹ said Harry furiously, and both Ron and Hermione winced. ʹWhatʹs 
happening? Whatʹs he up to? Where is he? What are we doing to stop him?ʹ 
ʹWeʹve told you, the Order donʹt let us in on their meetings,ʹ said Hermione 
nervously. ʹSo we donʹt know the details ‐ but weʹve got a general idea,ʹ she 
added hastily, seeing the look on Harryʹs face. 
ʹFred and George have invented Extendable Ears, see,ʹ said Ron. Theyʹre really 
useful.ʹ 
ʹExtendable ‐?ʹ 
ʹEars, yeah. Only weʹve had to stop using them lately because Mum found out 
and went berserk. Fred and George had to hide them all to stop Mum binning 
them. But we got a good bit of use out of them before Mum realised what was 
going on. We know some of the Order are following known Death Eaters, 
keeping tabs on them, you know ‐ʹ 
ʹSome of them are working on recruiting more people to the Order ‐ʹ said 
Hermione. 
ʹAnd some of them are standing guard over something,ʹ said Ron. Theyʹre always 
talking about guard duty.ʹ 
ʹCouldnʹt have been me, could it?ʹ said Harry sarcastically. 
ʹOh, yeah,ʹ said Ron, with a look of dawning comprehension. 
Harry snorted. He walked around the room again, looking anywhere but at Ron 
and Hermione. ʹSo, what have you two been doing, if youʹre not allowed in 
meetings?ʹ he demanded. ʹYou said youʹd been busy.ʹ 
ʹWe have,ʹ said Hermione quickly. ʹWeʹve been decontaminating this house, itʹs 
been empty for ages and stuffʹs been breeding in here. Weʹve managed to clean 
out the kitchen, most of the bedrooms and I think weʹre doing the drawing room 
tomo‐ʹ 
With two loud cracks, Fred and George, Ronʹs elder twin brothers, had 
materialised out of thin air in the middle of the room. Pigwidgeon twittered 
more wildly than ever and zoomed off to join Hedwig on top of the wardrobe. 

ʹStop doing that!ʹ Hermione said weakly to the twins, who were as vividly red‐
haired as Ron, though stockier and slightly shorter. 
ʹHello, Harry,ʹ said George, beaming at him. ʹWe thought we heard your dulcet 
tones.ʹ 
ʹYou donʹt want to bottle up your anger like that, Harry, let it all out,ʹ said Fred, 
also beaming. There might be a couple of people fifty miles away who didnʹt 
hear you.ʹ 
ʹYou two passed your Apparation tests, then?ʹ asked Harry grumpily. 
ʹWith distinction,ʹ said Fred, who was holding what looked like a piece of very 
long, flesh‐coloured string. 
ʹIt would have taken you about thirty seconds longer to walk down the stairs,ʹ 
said Ron. 
Time is Galleons, little brother,ʹ said Fred. ʹAnyway, Harry, youʹre interfering 
with reception. Extendable Ears,ʹ he added in response to Harryʹs raised 
eyebrows, and held up the string which Harry now saw was trailing out on to 
the landing. Weʹre trying to hear whatʹs going on downstairs.ʹ 
ʹYou want to be careful,ʹ said Ron, staring at the Ear, ʹif Mum sees one of them 
again…ʺ 
ʹItʹs worth the risk, thatʹs a major meeting theyʹre having,ʹ said Fred. 
The door opened and a long mane of red hair appeared. 
ʹOh, hello, Harry!ʹ said Ronʹs younger sister, Ginny, brightly. ʹI thought I heard 
your voice.ʹ 
Turning to Fred and George, she said, ʹItʹs no‐go with the Extendable Ears, sheʹs 
gone and put an Imperturbable Charm on the kitchen door.ʹ 
ʹHow dʹyou know?ʹ said George, looking crestfallen. 
Tonks told me how to find out,ʹ said Ginny. ʹYou just chuck stuff at the door and 
if it canʹt make contact the doorʹs been Imperturbed. Iʹve been flicking 

Dungbombs at it from the top of the stairs and they just soar away from it, so 
thereʹs no way the Extendable Ears will be able to get under the gap.ʹ 
Fred heaved a deep sigh. 
ʹShame. I really fancied finding out what old Snapeʹs been up to.ʹ 
ʹSnape!ʹ said Harry quickly. ʹIs he here?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said George, carefully closing the door and sitting down on one of the 
beds; Fred and Ginny followed. ʹGiving a report. Top secret.ʹ 
ʹGit,ʹ said Fred idly. 
ʹHeʹs on our side now,ʹ said Hermione reprovingly. 
Ron snorted. ʹDoesnʹt stop him being a git. The way he looks at us when he sees 
us.ʹ 
ʹBill doesnʹt like him, either,ʹ said Ginny, as though that settled the matter. 
Harry was not sure his anger had abated yet; but his thirst for information was 
now overcoming his urge to keep shouting. He sank on to the bed opposite the 
others. 
ʹIs Bill here?ʹ he asked. ʹI thought he was working in Egypt?ʹ 
ʹHe applied for a desk job so he could come home and work for the Order,ʹ said 
Fred. ʹHe says he misses the tombs, but; he smirked, ʹthere are compensations.ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean?ʹ 
ʹRemember old Fleur Delacour?ʹ said George. ʹSheʹs got a job at Gringotts to 
eempwve ʹer Eeenglish ‐ʹ 
ʹAnd Billʹs been giving her a lot of private lessons,ʹ sniggered Fred. 
ʹCharlieʹs in the Order, too,ʹ said George, ʹbut heʹs still in Romania. Dumbledore 
wants as many foreign wizards brought in as possible, so Charlieʹs trying to 
make contacts on his days off.ʹ 

ʹCouldnʹt Percy do that?ʹ Harry asked. The last he had heard, the third Weasley 
brother was working in the Department of International Magical Co‐operation at 
the Ministry of Magic. 
At Harryʹs words, all the Weasleys and Hermione exchanged darkly significant 
looks. 
ʹWhatever you do, donʹt mention Percy in front of Mum and Dad,ʹ Ron told 
Harry in a tense voice. 
ʹWhy not?ʹ 
ʹBecause every time Percyʹs nameʹs mentioned, Dad breaks whatever heʹs 
holding and Mum starts crying,ʹ Fred said. 
ʹItʹs been awful,ʹ said Ginny sadly. 
ʹI think weʹre well shot of him,ʹ said George, with an uncharacteristically ugly 
look on his face. 
ʹWhatʹs happened?ʹ Harry said. 
ʹPercy and Dad had a row,ʹ said Fred. ʹIʹve never seen Dad row with anyone like 
that. Itʹs normally Mum who shouts.ʹ 
ʹIt was the first week back after term ended,ʹ said Ron. ʹWe were about to come 
and join the Order. Percy came home and told us heʹd been promoted.ʹ 
ʹYouʹre kidding?ʹ said Harry. 
Though he knew perfectly well that Percy was highly ambitious, Harryʹs 
impression was that Percy had not made a great success of his first job at the 
Ministry of Magic. Percy had committed the fairly large oversight of failing to 
notice that his boss was being controlled by Lord Voldemort (not that the 
Ministry had believed it ‐ they all thought Mr Crouch had gone mad). 
ʹYeah, we were all surprised,ʹ said George, ʹbecause Percy got into a load of 
trouble about Crouch, there was an inquiry and everything. They said Percy 
ought to have realised Crouch was off his rocker and informed a superior. But 
you know Percy, Crouch left him in charge, he wasnʹt going to complain.ʹ 

ʹSo how come they promoted him?ʹ 
Thatʹs exactly what we wondered,ʹ said Ron, who seemed very keen to keep 
normal conversation going now that Harry had stopped yelling. ʹHe came home 
really pleased with himself ‐ even more pleased than usual, if you can imagine 
that ‐ and told Dad heʹd been offered a position in Fudgeʹs own office. A really 
good one for someone only a year out of Hogwarts: Junior Assistant to the 
Minister. He expected Dad to be all impressed, I think.ʹ 
ʹOnly Dad wasnʹt,ʹ said Fred grimly. 
ʹWhy not?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹWell, apparently Fudge has been storming round the Ministry checking that 
nobodyʹs having any contact with Dumbledore,ʹ said George. 
ʹDumbledoreʹs name is mud with the Ministry these days, see,ʹ said Fred. They 
all think heʹs just making trouble saying You‐Know‐Whoʹs back.ʹ 
ʹDad says Fudge has made it clear that anyone whoʹs in league with Dumbledore 
can clear out their desks,ʹ said George. 
ʹTrouble is, Fudge suspects Dad, he knows heʹs friendly with Dumbledore, and 
heʹs always thought Dadʹs a bit of a weirdo because of his Muggle obsession.ʹ 
ʹBut whatʹs that got to do with Percy?ʹ asked Harry, contused. 
ʹIʹm coming to that. Dad reckons Fudge only wants Percy in his office because he 
wants to use him to spy on the family ‐ and Dumbledore.ʹ 
Harry let out a low whistle. 
ʹBet Percy loved that.ʹ 
Ron laughed in a hollow sort of way. 
ʹHe went completely berserk. He said ‐ well, he said loads of terrible stuff. He 
said heʹs been having to struggle against Dadʹs lousy reputation ever since he 
joined the Ministry and that Dadʹs got no ambition and thatʹs why weʹve always 
been ‐ you know ‐ not had a lot of money, I mean ‐ʹ 

ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry in disbelief, as Ginny made a noise like an angry cat. 
ʹI know,ʹ said Ron in a low voice. ʹAnd it got worse. He said Dad was an idiot to 
run around with Dumbledore, that Dumbledore was heading for big trouble and 
Dad was going to go down with him, and that he ‐ Percy ‐ knew where his 
loyalty lay and it was with the Ministry. And if Mum and Dad were going to 
become traitors to the Ministry he was going to make sure everyone knew he 
didnʹt belong to our family any more. And he packed his bags the same night 
and left. Heʹs living here in London now.ʹ 
Harry swore under his breath. He had always liked Percy least of Ronʹs brothers, 
but he had never imagined he would say such things to Mr Weasley. 
ʹMumʹs been in a right state,ʹ said Ron dully. ʹYou know ‐ crying and stuff. She 
came up to London to try and talk to Percy but he slammed the door in her face. I 
dunno what he does if he meets Dad at work ‐ ignores him, Iʹsʹpose.ʹ 
ʹBut Percy must know Voldemortʹs back,ʹ said Harry slowly. ʹHeʹs not stupid, he 
must know your mum and dad wouldnʹt risk everything without proof.ʹ 
ʹYeah, well, your name got dragged into the row,ʹ said Ron, shooting Harry a 
furtive look. ʹPercy said the only evidence was your word and… I dunno… he 
didnʹt think it was good enough.ʹ 
ʹPercy takes the Daily Prophet seriously,ʹ said Hermione tartly, and the others all 
nodded. 
ʹWhat are you talking about?ʹ Harry asked, looking around at them all. They 
were all regarding him warily. 
ʹHavenʹt ‐ havenʹt you been getting the Daily Prophet!ʹ Hermione asked 
nervously. 
ʹYeah, I have!ʹ said Harry. 
ʹHave you ‐ er ‐ been reading it thoroughly?ʹ Hermione asked, still more 
anxiously. 
ʹNot cover to cover,ʹ said Harry defensively. ʹIf they were going to report 
anything about Voldemort it would be headline news, wouldnʹt it?ʹ 

The others flinched at the sound of the name. Hermione hurried on, ʹWell, youʹd 
need to read it cover to cover to pick it up, but they ‐ um ‐ they mention you a 
couple of times a week.ʹ 
ʹBut Iʹd have seen ‐ʹ 
ʹNot if youʹve only been reading the front page, you wouldnʹt,ʹ said Hermione, 
shaking her head. ʹIʹm not talking about big articles. They just slip you in, like 
youʹre a standing joke.ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou ‐?ʹ 
ʹItʹs quite nasty, actually,ʹ said Hermione in a voice of forced calm. Theyʹre just 
building on Ritaʹs stuff.ʹ 
ʹBut sheʹs not writing for them any more, is she?ʹ 
ʹOh, no, sheʹs kept her promise ‐ not that sheʹs got any choice,ʹ Hermione added 
with satisfaction. ʹBut she laid the foundation for what theyʹre trying to do now.ʹ 
ʹWhich is what?ʹ said Harry impatiently. 
ʹOK, you know she wrote that you were collapsing all over the place and saying 
your scar was hurting and all that?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, who was not likely to forget Rita Skeeters stories about him in 
a hurry. 
ʹWell, theyʹre writing about you as though youʹre this deluded, attention‐seeking 
person who thinks heʹs a great tragic hero or something,ʹ said Hermione, very 
fast, as though it would be less unpleasant for Harry to hear these facts quickly. 
ʹThey keep slipping in snide comments about you. If some far‐fetched story 
appears, they say something like, ʺA tale worthy of Harry Potterʺ, and if anyone 
has a funny accident or anything itʹs, ʺLetʹs hope he hasnʹt got a scar on his 
forehead or weʹll be asked to worship him nextʺ ‐ʹ 
ʹI donʹt want anyone to worship ‐ʹ Harry began hotly. 
ʹI know you donʹt,ʹ said Hermione quickly, looking frightened. ʹI know, Harry. 
But you see what theyʹre doing? They want to turn you into someone nobody 
will believe. Fudge is behind it, Iʹll bet anything. They want wizards on the street 

to think youʹre just some stupid boy whoʹs a bit of a joke, who tells ridiculous tall 
stories because he loves being famous and wants to keep it going.ʹ 
ʹI didnʹt ask ‐ I didnʹt want ‐ Voldemort killed my parents!ʹ Harry spluttered. ʹI got 
famous because he murdered my family but couldnʹt kill me! Who wants to be 
famous for that? Donʹt they think Iʹd rather itʹd never ‐ʹ 
ʹWe know, Harry,ʹ said Ginny earnestly. 
ʹAnd of course, they didnʹt report a word about the Dementors attacking you,ʹ 
said Hermione. ʹSomeoneʹs told them to keep that quiet. That shouldʹve been a 
really big story, out‐of‐control Dementors. They havenʹt even reported that you 
broke the International Statute of Secrecy. We thought they would, it would tie in 
so well with this image of you as some stupid show‐off. We think theyʹre biding 
their time until youʹre expelled, then theyʹre really going to go to town ‐ I mean, 
if youʹre expelled, obviously,ʹ she went on hastily. ʹYou really shouldnʹt be, not if 
they abide by their own laws, thereʹs no case against you.ʹ 
They were back on the hearing and Harry did not want to think about that. He 
cast around for another change of subject, but was saved the necessity of finding 
one by the sound of footsteps coming up the stairs. 
ʹUh oh.ʹ 
Fred gave the Extendable Ear a hearty tug; there was another loud crack and he 
and George vanished. Seconds later, Mrs Weasley appeared in the bedroom 
doorway. 
ʹThe meetingʹs over, you can come down and have dinner now. Everyoneʹs dying 
to see you, Harry. And whoʹs left all those Dungbombs outside the kitchen door?ʹ 
ʹCrookshanks,ʹ said Ginny unblusingly. ʹHe loves playing with them.ʹ 
ʹOh,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, ʹI thought it might have been Kreacher, he keeps doing 
odd things like that. Now donʹt forget to keep your voices down in the hall. 
Ginny, your hands are filthy, what have you been doing? Go and wash them 
before dinner, please.ʹ 
Ginny grimaced at the others and followed her mother out of the room, leaving 
Harry alone with Ron and Hermione. Both of them were watching him 
apprehensively, as though they feared he would start shouting again now that 

everyone else had gone. The sight of them looking so nervous made him feel 
slightly ashamed. 
ʹLook…ʹ he muttered, but Ron shook his head, and Hermione said quietly, ʹWe 
knew youʹd be angry, Harry, we really donʹt blame you, but youʹve got to 
understand, we did try to persuade Dumbledore ‐ʹ 
ʹYeah, I know,ʹ said Harry shortly. 
He cast around for a topic that didnʹt involve his headmaster, because the very 
thought of Dumbledore made Harryʹs insides burn with anger again. 
ʹWhoʹs Kreacher?ʹ he asked. 
The house‐elf who lives here,ʹ said Ron. ʹNutter. Never met one like him.ʹ 
Hermione frowned at Ron. 
ʹHeʹs not a nutter, Ron.ʹ 
ʹHis lifeʹs ambition is to have his head cut off and stuck up on a plaque just like 
his mother,ʹ said Ron irritably. ʹIs that normal, Hermione?ʹ 
ʹWell ‐ well, if he is a bit strange, itʹs not his fault.ʹ 
Ron rolled his eyes at Harry. 
ʹHermione still hasnʹt given up on SPEW ‐ʹ 
ʹItʹs not SPEW!ʹ said Hermione heatedly. ʹItʹs the Society for the Promotion of 
Elfish Welfare. And itʹs not just me, Dumbledore says we should be kind to 
Kreacher too.ʹ 
ʹYeah, yeah,ʹ said Ron. ʹCʹmon, Iʹm starving.ʹ 
He led the way out of the door and on to the landing, but before they could 
descend the stairs ‐ 
ʹHold it!ʹ Ron breathed, flinging out an arm to stop Harry and Hermione walking 
any further. Theyʹre still in the hall, we might be able to hear something.ʹ 

The three of them looked cautiously over the banisters. The gloomy hallway 
below was packed with witches and wizards, including all of Harrys guard. 
They were whispering excitedly together. In the very centre of the group Harry 
saw the dark, greasy‐haired head and prominent nose of his least favourite 
teacher at Hogwarts, Professor Snape. Harry leant further over the banisters. He 
was very interested in what Snape was doing for the Order of the Phoenix… 
A thin piece of flesh‐coloured string descended in front of Harrys eyes. Looking 
up, he saw Ered and George on the landing above, cautiously lowering the 
Extendable Ear towards the dark knot of people below. A moment later, 
however, they all began to move towards the front door and out of sight. 
ʹDammit,ʹ Harry heard Fred whisper, as he hoisted the Extendable Ear back up 
again. 
They heard the front door open, then close. 
ʹSnape never eats here,ʹ Ron told Harry quietly. Thank God. Cʹmon.ʹ 
ʹAnd donʹt forget to keep your voice down in the hall, Harry,ʹ Hermione 
whispered. 
As they passed the row of house‐elf heads on the wall, they saw Lupin, Mrs 
Weasley and Tonks at the front door, magically sealing its many locks and bolts 
behind those who had just left. 
ʹWeʹre eating down in the kitchen,ʹ Mrs Weasley whispered, meeting them at the 
bottom of the stairs. ʹHarry, dear, if youʹll just tiptoe across the hall, itʹs through 
this door here ‐ʹ 
CRASH. 
ʹTonks!ʹ cried Mrs Weasley in exasperation, turning to look behind her. 
ʹIʹm sorry!ʹ wailed Tonks, who was lying flat on the floor. ʹItʹs that stupid 
umbrella stand, thatʹs the second time Iʹve tripped over ‐ʹ 
But the rest of her words were drowned by a horrible, ear‐splitting, blood‐
curdling screech. 

The moth‐eaten velvet curtains Harry had passed earlier had flown apart, but 
there was no door behind them. For a split second, Harry thought he was 
looking through a window, a window behind which an old woman in a black 
cap was screaming and screaming as though she were being tortured ‐ then he 
realised it was simply a life‐size portrait, but the most realistic, and the most 
unpleasant, he had ever seen in his life. 
The old woman was drooling, her eyes were rolling, the yellowing skin of her 
face stretched taut as she screamed; and all along the hall behind them, the other 
portraits awoke and began to yell, too, so that Harry actually screwed up his eyes 
at the noise and clapped his hands over his ears. 
Lupin and Mrs Weasley darted forward and tried to tug the curtains shut over 
the old woman, but they would not close and she screeched louder than ever, 
brandishing clawed hands as though trying to tear at their faces. 
ʹFilth! Scum! By‐products of dirt and vileness! Half‐breeds, mutants, freaks, begone from 
this place! How dare you befoul the house of my fathers ‐ʹ
Tonks apologised over and over again, dragging the huge, heavy trollʹs leg back 
off the floor; Mrs Weasley abandoned the attempt to close the curtains and 
hurried up and down the hall, stunning all the other portraits with her wand; 
and a man with long black hair came charging out of a door facing Harry. 
ʹShut up, you horrible old hag, shut UP!ʹ he roared, seizing the curtain Mrs 
Weasley had abandoned. 
The old womanʹs face blanched. 
ʹYoooou!ʹ she howled, her eyes popping at the sight of the man. ʹBlood traitor, 
abomination, shame of my flesh!ʹ 
ʹI said ‐ shut ‐ UP!ʹ roared the man, and with a stupendous effort he and Lupin 
managed to force the curtains closed again. 
The old womanʹs screeches died and an echoing silence fell. Panting slightly and 
sweeping his long dark hair out of his eyes, Harryʹs godfather Sirius turned to 
face him. 
ʹHello, Harry,ʹ he said grimly, ʹI see youʹve met my mother.ʹ 

CHAPTER FIVE — 
The Order of the Phoenix
ʹYour ‐?ʹ 
ʹMy dear old mum, yeah,ʹ said Sirius. ʹWeʹve been trying to get her down for a 
month but we think she put a Permanent Sticking Charm on the back of the 
canvas. Letʹs get downstairs, quick, before they all wake up again.ʹ 
ʹBut whatʹs a portrait of your mother doing here?ʹ Harry asked, bewildered, as 
they went through the door from the hall and led the way down a flight of 
narrow stone steps, the others just behind them. 
ʹHasnʹt anyone told you? This was my parentsʹ house,ʹ said Sirius. ʹBut Iʹm the 
last Black left, so itʹs mine now. I offered it to Dumbledore for Headquarters ‐ 
about the only useful thing Iʹve been able to do.ʹ 
Harry, who had expected a better welcome, noted how hard and bitter Siriusʹs 
voice sounded. He followed his godfather to the bottom of the steps and through 
a door leading into the basement kitchen. 
It was scarcely less gloomy than the hall above, a cavernous room with rough 
stone walls. Most of the light was coming from a large fire at the far end of the 
room. A haze of pipe smoke hung in the air like battle fumes, through which 
loomed the menacing shapes of heavy iron pots and pans hanging from the dark 
ceiling. Many chairs had been crammed into the room for the meeting and a long 
wooden table stood in the middle of them, littered with rolls of parchment, 
goblets, empty wine bottles, and a heap of what appeared to be rags. Mr Weasley 
and his eldest son Bill were talking quietly with their heads together at the end of 
the table. 
Mrs Weasley cleared her throat. Her husband, a thin, balding, red‐haired man 
who wore horn‐rimmed glasses, looked around and jumped to his feet. 
ʹHarry!ʹ Mr Weasley said, hurrying forward to greet him, and shaking his hand 
vigorously. ʹGood to see you!ʹ 
Over his shoulder Harry saw Bill, who still wore his long hair in a ponytail, 
hastily rolling up the lengths of parchment left on the table. 

ʹJourney all right, Harry?ʹ Bill called, trying to gather up twelve scrolls at once. 
ʹMad‐Eye didnʹt make you come via Greenland, then?ʹ 
ʹHe tried,ʹ said Tonks, striding over to help Bill and immediately toppling a 
candle on to the last piece of parchment. ʹOh no ‐ sorry ‐
ʹHere, dear,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, sounding exasperated, and she repaired the 
parchment with a wave of her wand. In the flash of light caused by Mrs 
Weasleyʹs charm Harry caught a glimpse of what looked like the plan of a 
building. 
Mrs Weasley had seen him looking. She snatched the plan off the table and 
stuffed it into Billʹs already overladen arms. 
ʹThis sort of thing ought to be cleared away promptly at the end of meetings,ʹ she 
snapped, before sweeping off towards an ancient dresser from which she started 
unloading dinner plates. 
Bill took out his wand, muttered, ʹEvanesco!ʹ and the scrolls vanished. 
ʹSit down, Harry,ʹ said Sirius. ʹYouʹve met Mundungus, havenʹt you?ʹ 
The thing Harry had taken to be a pile of rags gave a prolonged, grunting snore, 
then jerked awake. 
ʹSomeʹn say mʹname?ʹ Mundungus mumbled sleepily. ʹI ʹgree with Sirius…ʹ He 
raised a very grubby hand in the air as though voting, his droopy, bloodshot 
eyes unfocused. 
Ginny giggled. 
ʹThe meetingʹs over, Dung,ʹ said Sirius, as they all sat down around him at the 
table. ʹHarryʹs arrived.ʹ 
ʹEh?ʹ said Mundungus, peering balefully at Harry through his matted ginger 
hair. ʹBlimey, so ʹe ʹas. Yeah… you all right, ʹAny?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry. 
Mundungus fumbled nervously in his pockets, still staring at Harry, and pulled 
out a grimy black pipe. He stuck it in his mouth, ignited the end of it with his 

wand and took a deep pull on it. Great billowing clouds of greenish smoke 
obscured him within seconds. 
ʹOwe you a ʹpology,ʹ grunted a voice from the middle of the smelly cloud. 
ʹFor the last time, Mundungus,ʹ called Mrs Weasley, ʹwill you please not smoke 
that thing in the kitchen, especially not when weʹre about to eat!ʹ 
ʹAh,ʹ said Mundungus. ʹRight. Sorry, Molly.ʹ 
The cloud of smoke vanished as Mundungus stowed his pipe back in his pocket, 
but an acrid smell of burning socks lingered. 
ʹAnd if you want dinner before midnight Iʹll need a hand,ʹ Mrs Weasley said to 
the room at large. ʹNo, you can stay where you are, Harry dear, youʹve had a 
long journey.ʹ 
ʹWhat can I do, Molly?ʹ said Tonks enthusiastically, bounding forwards. 
Mrs Weasley hesitated, looking apprehensive. 
ʹEr ‐ no, itʹs all right, Tonks, you have a rest too, youʹve done enough today.ʹ 
ʹNo, no, I want to help!ʹ said Tonks brightly, knocking over a chair as she hurried 
towards the dresser, from which Ginny was collecting cutlery. 
Soon, a series of heavy knives were chopping meat and vegetables of their own 
accord, supervised by Mr Weasley, while Mrs Weasley stirred a cauldron 
dangling over the fire and the others took out plates, more goblets and food from 
the pantry. Harry was left at the table with Sirius and Mundungus, who was still 
blinking at him mournfully. 
ʹSeen old Figgy since?ʹ he asked. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry, ʹI havenʹt seen anyone.ʹ 
ʹSee, I wouldnʹt ʹave left,ʹ said Mundungus, leaning forward, a pleading note in 
his voice, ʹbut I ʹad a business opportunity ‐ʹ 
Harry felt something brush against his knees and started, but it was only 
Crookshanks, Hermioneʹs bandy‐legged ginger cat, who wound himself once 

around Harryʹs legs, purring, then jumped on to Siriusʹs lap and curled up. Sirius 
scratched him absent‐mindedly behind the ears as he turned, still grim‐faced, to 
Harry. 
ʹHad a good summer so far?ʹ 
ʹNo, itʹs been lousy,ʹ said Harry. 
For the first time, something like a grin flitted across Siriusʹs face. 
ʹDonʹt know what youʹre complaining about, myself.ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry incredulously. 
ʹPersonally, Iʹd have welcomed a Dementor attack. A deadly struggle for my soul 
would have broken the monotony nicely. You think youʹve had it bad, at least 
youʹve been able to get out and about, stretch your legs, get into a few fights… 
Iʹve been stuck inside for a month.ʹ 
ʹHow come?ʹ asked Harry, frowning. 
ʹBecause the Ministry of Magicʹs still after me, and Voldemort will know all 
about me being an Animagus by now, Wormtail will have told him, so my big 
disguise is useless. Thereʹs not much I can do for the Order of the Phoenix… or 
so Dumbledore feels.ʹ 
There was something about the slightly flattened tone of voice in which Sirius 
uttered Dumbledoreʹs name that told Harry that Sirius, too, was not very happy 
with the Headmaster. Harry felt a sudden upsurge of affection for his godfather. 
At least youʹve known whatʹs been going on,ʹ he said bracingly. 
ʹOh yeah,ʹ said Sirius sarcastically. ʹListening to Snapeʹs reports, having to take all 
his snide hints that heʹs out there risking his life while Iʹm sat on my backside 
here having a nice comfortable time… asking me how the cleanings going ‐ʹ 
ʹWhat cleaning?ʹ asked Harry. 
Trying to make this place fit for human habitation,ʹ said Sirius, waving a hand 
around the dismal kitchen. ʹNo oneʹs lived here for ten years, not since my dear 

mother died, unless you count her old house‐elf, and heʹs gone round the twist ‐ 
hasnʹt cleaned anything in ages.ʹ 
ʹSirius,ʹ said Mundungus, who did not appear to have paid any attention to the 
conversation, but had been closely examining an empty goblet. ʹThis solid silver, 
mate?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Sirius, surveying it with distaste. ʹFinest fifteenth‐century goblin‐
wrought silver, embossed with the Black family crest.ʹ 
Thatʹd come orf, though,ʹ muttered Mundungus, polishing it with his cuff. 
ʹFred ‐ George ‐ NO, JUST CARRY THEM!ʹ Mrs Weasley shrieked. 
Harry, Sirius and Mundungus looked round and, within a split second, they had 
dived away from the table. Fred and George had bewitched a large cauldron of 
stew, an iron flagon of Butterbeer and a heavy wooden breadboard, complete 
with knife, to hurtle through the air towards them. The stew skidded the length 
of the table and came to a halt just before the end, leaving a long black burn on 
the wooden surface; the flagon of Butterbeer fell with a crash, spilling its contents 
everywhere; the bread knife slipped off the board and landed, point down and 
quivering ominously, exactly where Siriusʹs right hand had been seconds before. 
ʹFOR HEAVENʹS SAKE!ʹ screamed Mrs Weasley. THERE WAS NO NEED ‐ IʹVE 
HAD ENOUGH OF THIS ‐ JUST BECAUSE YOUʹRE ALLOWED TO USE 
MAGIC NOW, YOU DONʹT HAVE TO WHIP YOUR WANDS OUT FOR EVERY 
TINY LITTLE THING!ʹ 
ʹWe were just trying to save a bit of time!ʹ said Fred, hurrying forward to wrench 
the bread knife out of the table. ʹSorry, Sirius, mate ‐ didnʹt mean to ‐ʹ 
Harry and Sirius were both laughing; Mundungus, who had toppled backwards 
off his chair, was swearing as he got to his feet; Crookshanks had given an angry 
hiss and shot off under the dresser, from where his large yellow eyes glowed in 
the darkness. 
ʹBoys,ʹ Mr Weasley said, lifting the stew back into the middle of the table, ʹyour 
motherʹs right, youʹre supposed to show a sense of responsibility now youʹve 
come of age ‐ʹ 

ʹNone of your brothers caused this sort of trouble!ʹ Mrs Weasley raged at the 
twins as she slammed a fresh flagon of Butterbeer on to the table, and spilling 
almost as much again. ʹBill didnʹt feel the need to Apparate every few feet! 
Charlie didnʹt charm everything he met! Percy ‐ʹ 
She stopped dead, catching her breath with a frightened look at her husband, 
whose expression was suddenly wooden. 
ʹLetʹs eat,ʹ said Bill quickly. 
ʹIt looks wonderful, Molly,ʹ said Lupin, ladling stew on to a plate for her and 
handing it across the table. 
For a few minutes there was silence but for the chink of plates and cutlery and 
the scraping of chairs as everyone settled down to their food. Then Mrs Weasley 
turned to Sirius. 
ʹIʹve been meaning to tell you, Sirius, thereʹs something trapped in that writing 
desk in the drawing room, it keeps rattling and shaking. Of course, it could just 
be a Boggart, but I thought we ought to ask Alastor to have a look at it before we 
let it out.ʹ 
ʹWhatever you like,ʹ said Sirius indifferently. 
ʹThe curtains in there are full of Doxys, too,ʹ Mrs Weasley went on. ʹI thought we 
might try and tackle them tomorrow.ʹ 
ʹI look forward to it,ʹ said Sirius. Harry heard the sarcasm in his voice, but he was 
not sure that anyone else did. 
Opposite Harry, Tonks was entertaining Hermione and Ginny by transforming 
her nose between mouthfuls. Screwing up her eyes each time with the same 
pained expression she had worn back in Harryʹs bedroom, her nose swelled to a 
beak‐like protuberance that resembled Snapeʹs, shrank to the size of a button 
mushroom and then sprouted a great deal of hair from each nostril. Apparently 
this was a regular mealtime entertainment, because Hermione and Ginny were 
soon requesting their favourite noses. 
ʹDo that one like a pig snout, Tonks.ʹ 

Tonks obliged, and Harry, looking up, had the fleeting impression that a female 
Dudley was grinning at him from across the table. 
Mr Weasley, Bill and Lupin were having an intense discussion about goblins. 
Theyʹre not giving anything away yet,ʹ said Bill. ʹI still canʹt work out whether or 
not they believe heʹs back. Course, they might prefer not to take sides at all. Keep 
out of it.ʹ 
ʹIʹm sure theyʹd never go over to You‐Know‐Who,ʹ said Mr Weasley, shaking his 
head. Theyʹve suffered losses too; remember that goblin family he murdered last 
time, somewhere near Nottingham?ʹ 
ʹI think it depends what theyʹre offered,ʹ said Lupin. ʹAnd Iʹm not talking about 
gold. If theyʹre offered the freedoms weʹve been denying them for centuries 
theyʹre going to be tempted. Have you still not had any luck with Ragnok, Bill?ʹ 
ʹHeʹs feeling pretty anti‐wizard at the moment,ʹ said Bill, ʹhe hasnʹt stopped 
raging about the Bagman business, he reckons the Ministry did a cover‐up, those 
goblins never got their gold from him, you know ‐ʹ 
A gale of laughter from the middle of the table drowned the rest of Billʹs words. 
Fred, George, Ron and Mundungus were rolling around in their seats. 
ʹ… and then,ʹ choked Mundungus, tears running down his face, ʹand then, if 
youʹll believe it, ʹe says to me, ʹe says, ʺʹEre, Dung, where didja get all them toads 
from? ʹCos some son of a Bludgerʹs gone and nicked all mine!ʺ And I says, 
ʺNicked all your toads, Will, what next? So youʹll be wanting some more, then?ʺ 
And if youʹll believe me, lads, the gormless gargoyle buys all ʹis own toads back 
orf me for a lot moreʹn what ʹe paid in the first place ‐ʹ 
ʹ1 donʹt think we need to hear any more of your business dealings, thank you 
very much, Mundungus,ʹ said Mrs Weasley sharply, as Ron slumped forwards 
on to the table, howling with laughter. 
ʹBeg pardon, Molly,ʹ said Mundungus at once, wiping his eyes and winking at 
Harry. ʹBut, you know, Will nicked ʹem orf Warty Harris in the first place so I 
wasnʹt really doing nothing wrong.ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know where you learned about right and wrong, Mundungus, but you 
seem to have missed a few crucial lessons,ʹ said Mrs Weasley coldly. 

Fred and George buried their faces in their goblets of Butterbeer; George was 
hiccoughing. For some reason, Mrs Weasley threw a very nasty look at Sirius 
before getting to her feet and going to fetch a large rhubarb crumble for pudding. 
Harry looked round at his godfather. 
ʹMolly doesnʹt approve of Mundungus,ʹ said Sirius in an undertone. 
ʹHow come heʹs in the Order?ʹ Harry said, very quietly. 
ʹHeʹs useful,ʹ Sirius muttered. ʹKnows all the crooks ‐ well, he would, seeing as 
heʹs one himself. But heʹs also very loyal to Dumbledore, who helped him out of 
a tight spot once. It pays to have someone like Dung around, he hears things we 
donʹt. But Molly thinks inviting him to stay for dinner is going too far. She hasnʹt 
forgiven him for slipping off duty when he was supposed to be tailing you.ʹ 
Three helpings of rhubarb crumble and custard later and the waistband on 
Harrys jeans was feeling uncomfortably tight (which was saying something as 
the jeans had once been Dudleyʹs). As he laid down his spoon there was a lull in 
the general conversation: Mr Weasley was leaning back in his chair, looking 
replete and relaxed; Tonks was yawning widely, her nose now back to normal; 
and Ginny who had lured Crookshanks out from under the dresser, was sitting 
cross‐legged on the floor, rolling Butterbeer corks for him to chase. 
ʹNearly time for bed, I think,ʹ said Mrs Weasley with a yawn. 
ʹNot just yet, Mollyʹ said Sirius, pushing away his empty plate and turning to 
look at Harry. ʹYou know, Iʹm surprised at you. I thought the first thing youʹd do 
when you got here would be to start asking questions about Voldemort.ʹ 
The atmosphere in the room changed with the rapidity Harry associated with the 
arrival of Dementors. Where seconds before it had been sleepily relaxed, it was 
now alert, even tense. A frisson had gone around the table at the mention of 
Voldemortʹs name. Lupin, who had been about to take a sip of wine, lowered his 
goblet slowly, looking wary. 
ʹI did!ʹ said Harry indignantly. ʹI asked Ron and Hermione but they said weʹre 
not allowed in the Order, so ‐ʹ 
ʹAnd theyʹre quite right,ʹ said Mrs Weasley. ʹYouʹre too young.ʹ 

She was sitting bolt upright in her chair, her fists clenched on its arms, every 
trace of drowsiness gone. 
ʹSince when did someone have to be in the Order of the Phoenix to ask 
questions?ʹ asked Sirius. ʹHarryʹs been trapped in that Muggle house for a month. 
Heʹs got the right to know whatʹs been happen—ʹ 
ʹHang on!ʹ interrupted George loudly. 
ʹHow come Harry gets his questions answered?ʹ said Fred angrily. 
ʹWeʹve been trying to get stuff out of you for a month and you havenʹt told us a 
single stinking thing!ʹ said George. 
ʹʺYouʹre too young, youʹre not in the Order,ʹʺ said Fred, in a high‐pitched voice that 
sounded uncannily like his motherʹs. ʹHarryʹs not even of age!ʹ 
ʹItʹs not my fault you havenʹt been told what the Orderʹs doing,ʹ said Sirius 
calmly, ʹthatʹs your parentsʹ decision. Harry, on the other hand ‐ʹ 
ʹItʹs not down to you to decide whatʹs good for Harry!ʹ said Mrs Weasley sharply. 
The expression on her normally kind face looked dangerous. ʹYou havenʹt 
forgotten what Dumbledore said, I suppose?ʹ 
ʹWhich bit?ʹ Sirius asked politely, but with the air of a man readying himself for a 
fight. 
The bit about not telling Harry more than he needs to know,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, 
placing a heavy emphasis on the last three words. 
Ron, Hermione, Fred and Georgeʹs heads swivelled from Sirius to Mrs Weasley 
as though they were following a tennis rally. Ginny was kneeling amid a pile of 
abandoned Butterbeer corks, watching the conversation with her mouth slightly 
open. Lupinʹs eyes were fixed on Sirius. 
ʹI donʹt intend to tell him more than he needs to know, Molly,ʹ said Sirius. ʹBut as 
he was the one who saw Voldemort come backʹ (again, there was a collective 
shudder around the table at the name) ʹhe has more right than most to ‐ʹ 
ʹHeʹs not a member of the Order of the Phoenix!ʹ said Mrs Weasley. ʹHeʹs only 
fifteen and ‐ʹ 

ʹAnd heʹs dealt with as much as most in the Order,ʹ said Sirius, ʹand more than 
some.ʹ 
ʹNo oneʹs denying what heʹs done!ʹ said Mrs Weasley, her voice rising, her fists 
trembling on the arms of her chair. ʹBut heʹs still ‐ʹ 
ʹHeʹs not a child!ʹ said Sirius impatiently. 
ʹHeʹs not an adult either!ʹ said Mrs Weasley, the colour rising in her cheeks. ʹHeʹs 
not James, Sirius!ʹ 
ʹIʹm perfectly clear who he is, thanks, Molly,ʹ said Sirius coldly. 
ʹIʹm not sure you are!ʹ said Mrs Weasley. ʹSometimes, the way you talk about 
him, itʹs as though you think youʹve got your best friend back!ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs wrong with that?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹWhatʹs wrong, Harry, is that you are not your father, however much you might 
look like him!ʹ said Mrs Weasley, her eyes still boring into Sirius. ʹYou are still at 
school and adults responsible for you should not forget it!ʹ 
ʹMeaning Iʹm an irresponsible godfather?ʹ demanded Sirius, his voice rising. 
ʹMeaning you have been known to act rashly, Sirius, which is why Dumbledore 
keeps reminding you to stay at home and ‐ʹ 
ʹWeʹll leave my instructions from Dumbledore out of this, if you please!ʹ said 
Sirius loudly. 
ʹArthur!ʹ said Mrs Weasley, rounding on her husband. ʹArthur, back me up!ʹ 
Mr Weasley did not speak at once. He took off his glasses and cleaned them 
slowly on his robes, not looking at his wife. Only when he had replaced them 
carefully on his nose did he reply. 
ʹDumbledore knows the position has changed, Molly. He accepts that Harry will 
have to be filled in, to a certain extent, now that he is staying at Headquarters.ʹ 
ʹYes, but thereʹs a difference between that and inviting him to ask whatever he 
likes!ʹ 

ʹPersonally,ʹ said Lupin quietly, looking away from Sirius at last, as Mrs Weasley 
turned quickly to him, hopeful that finally she was about to get an ally, ʹI think it 
better that Harry gets the facts ‐not all the facts, Molly, but the general picture ‐ 
from us, rather than a garbled version from… others.ʹ 
His expression was mild, but Harry felt sure Lupin, at least, knew that some 
Extendable Ears had survived Mrs Weasleyʹs purge. 
ʹWell,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, breathing deeply and looking around the table for 
support that did not come, ʹwell… I can see Iʹm going to be overruled. Iʹll just say 
this: Dumbledore must have had his reasons for not wanting Harry to know too 
much, and speaking as someone who has Harryʹs best interests at heart ‐ʹ 
ʹHeʹs not your son,ʹ said Sirius quietly. 
ʹHeʹs as good as,ʹ said Mrs Weasley fiercely. ʹWho else has he got?ʹ 
ʹHeʹs got me!ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, her lip curling, ʹthe thing is, itʹs been rather difficult for 
you to look after him while youʹve been locked UP in Azkaban, hasnʹt it?ʹ 
Sirius started to rise from his chair. 
ʹMolly, youʹre not the only person at this table who cares about Harry,ʹ said 
Lupin sharply. ʹSirius, sit down.ʹ 
Mrs Weasleyʹs lower lip was trembling. Sirius sank slowly back into his chair, his 
face white. 
ʹI think Harry ought to be allowed a say in this,ʹ Lupin continued, ʹheʹs old 
enough to decide for himself.ʹ 
ʹI want to know whatʹs been going on,ʹ Harry said at once. 
He did not look at Mrs Weasley. He had been touched by what she had said 
about his being as good as a son, but he was also impatient with her 
mollycoddling. Sirius was right, he was not a child. 
ʹVery well,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, her voice cracking. ʹGinny ‐ Ron ‐ Hermione ‐ Fred 
‐ George ‐ I want you out of this kitchen, now.ʹ 

There was instant uproar. 
ʹWeʹre of age!ʹ Fred and George bellowed together. 
ʹIf Harryʹs allowed, why canʹt I?ʹ shouted Ron. 
ʹMum, I want to hear!ʹ wailed Ginny. 
ʹNO!ʹ shouted Mrs Weasley, standing up, her eyes overbright. ʹI absolutely forbid 
‐ʹ 
ʹMolly, you canʹt stop Fred and George,ʹ said Mr Weasley wearily. They are of 
age.ʹ 
Theyʹre still at school.ʹ 
ʹBut theyʹre legally adults now,ʹ said Mr Weasley, in the same tired voice. 
Mrs Weasley was now scarlet in the face. 
ʹI ‐ oh, all right then, Fred and George can stay, but Ron ‐ʹ 
ʹHarryʹll tell me and Hermione everything you say anyway!ʹ said Ron hotly. 
ʹWonʹt ‐ wonʹt you?ʹ he added uncertainly, meeting Harryʹs eyes. 
For a split second, Harry considered telling Ron that he wouldnʹt tell him a single 
word, that he could try a taste of being kept in the dark and see how he liked it. 
But the nasty impulse vanished as they looked at each other. 
ʹCourse I will,ʹ Harry said. 
Ron and Hermione beamed. 
ʹFine!ʹ shouted Mrs Weasley. ʹFine! Ginny ‐ BED!ʹ 
Ginny did not go quietly. They could hear her raging and storming at her mother 
all the way up the stairs, and when she reached the hall Mrs Blacks ear‐splitting 
shrieks were added to the din. Lupin hurried off to the portrait to restore calm. It 
was only after he had returned, closing the kitchen door behind him and taking 
his seat at the table again, that Sirius spoke. 
ʹOK, Harry… what do you want to know?ʹ 

Harry took a deep breath and asked the question that had obsessed him for the 
last month. 
ʹWhereʹs Voldemort?ʹ he said, ignoring the renewed shudders and winces at the 
name. ʹWhatʹs he doing? Iʹve been trying to watch the Muggle news, and there 
hasnʹt been anything that looks like him yet, no funny deaths or anything.ʹ 
Thatʹs because there havenʹt been any funny deaths yet,ʹ said Sirius, ʹnot as far as 
we know, anyway… and we know quite a lot.ʹ 
ʹMore than he thinks we do, anyway,ʹ said Lupin. 
ʹHow come heʹs stopped killing people?ʹ Harry asked. He knew Voldemort had 
murdered more than once in the last year alone. 
ʹBecause he doesnʹt want to draw attention to himself,ʹ said Sirius. ʹIt would be 
dangerous for him. His comeback didnʹt come off quite the way he wanted it to, 
you see. He messed it up.ʹ 
ʹOr rather, you messed it tip for him,ʹ said Lupin, with a satisfied smile. 
ʹHow?ʹ Harry asked, perplexed. 
ʹYou werenʹt supposed to survive!ʹ said Sirius. ʹNobody apart from his Death 
Eaters was supposed to know heʹd come back. But you survived to bear witness.ʹ 
ʹAnd the very last person he wanted alerted to his return the moment he got back 
was Dumbledore,ʹ said Lupin. ʹAnd you made sure Dumbledore knew at once.ʹ 
ʹHow has that helped?ʹ Harry asked. 
ʹAre you kidding?ʹ said Bill incredulously. ʹDumbledore was the only one You‐
Know‐Who was ever scared of!ʹ 
Thanks to you, Dumbledore was able to recall the Order of the Phoenix about an 
hour after Voldemort returned,ʹ said Sirius. 
ʹSo, whatʹs the Order been doing?ʹ said Harry, looking around at them all. 
ʹWorking as hard as we can to make sure Voldemort canʹt carry out his plans,ʹ 
said Sirius. 

ʹHow dʹyou know what his plans are?ʹ Harry asked quickly. 
ʹDumbledoreʹs got a shrewd idea,ʹ said Lupin, ʹand Dumbledoreʹs shrewd ideas 
normally turn out to be accurate.ʹ 
ʹSo what does Dumbledore reckon heʹs planning?ʹ 
ʹWell, firstly, he wants to build up his army again,ʹ said Sirius. ʹIn the old days he 
had huge numbers at his command: witches and wizards heʹd bullied or 
bewitched into following him, his faithful Death Eaters, a great variety of Dark 
creatures. You heard him planning to recruit the giants; well, theyʹll be just one 
of the groups heʹs after. Heʹs certainly not going to try and take on the Ministry 
of Magic with only a dozen Death Eaters.ʹ 
ʹSo youʹre trying to stop him getting more followers?ʹ 
ʹWeʹre doing our best,ʹ said Lupin. 
ʹHow?ʹ 
ʹWell, the main thing is to try and convince as many people as possible that You‐
Know‐Who really has returned, to put them on their guard,ʹ said Bill. ʹItʹs 
proving tricky, though.ʹ 
ʹWhy?ʹ 
ʹBecause of the Ministryʹs attitude,ʹ said Tonks. ʹYou saw Cornelius Fudge after 
You‐Know‐Who came back, Harry. Well, he hasnʹt shifted his position at all. Heʹs 
absolutely refusing to believe itʹs happened.ʹ 
ʹBut why?ʹ said Harry desperately. Whyʹs he being so stupid? If Dumbledore ‐ʹ 
ʹAh, well, youʹve put your finger on the problem,ʹ said Mr Weasley with a wry 
smile. ʹDumbledore.ʹ 
ʹFudge is frightened of him, you see,ʹ said Tonks sadly. 
ʹFrightened of Dumbledore?ʹ said Harry incredulously. 

ʹFrightened of what heʹs up to,ʹ said Mr Weasley. ʹFudge thinks Dumbledoreʹs 
plotting to overthrow him. He thinks Dumbledore wants to be Minister for 
Magic.ʹ 
ʹBut Dumbledore doesnʹt want ‐ʹ 
ʹOf course he doesnʹt,ʹ said Mr Weasley. ʹHeʹs never wanted the Ministerʹs job, 
even though a lot of people wanted him to take it when Millicent Bagnold 
retired. Fudge came to power instead, but 
‐ 
heʹs never quite forgotten how much popular support Dumbledore had, even 
though Dumbledore never applied for the job.ʹ 
ʹDeep down, Fudge knows Dumbledoreʹs much cleverer than he is a much more 
powerful wizard, and in the early days of his Ministry he was forever asking 
Dumbledore for help and advice,ʹ said Lupin. ʹBut it seems heʹs become fond of 
power, and much more confident. He loves being Minister for Magic and heʹs 
managed to convince himself that heʹs the clever one and Dumbledoreʹs simply 
stirring up trouble for the sake of it.ʹ 
ʹHow can he think that?ʹ said Harry angrily. ʹHow can he think Dumbledore 
would just make it all up ‐ that Iʹd make it all up?ʹ 
ʹBecause accepting that Voldemortʹs back would mean trouble like the Ministry 
hasnʹt had to cope with for nearly fourteen years,ʹ said Sirius bitterly. ʹFudge just 
canʹt bring himself to face it. Itʹs so much more comfortable to convince himself 
Dumbledoreʹs lying to destabilise him.ʹ 
ʹYou see the problem,ʹ said Lupin. ʹWhile the Ministry insists there is nothing to 
fear from Voldemort itʹs hard to convince people heʹs back, especially as they 
really donʹt want to believe it in the first place. Whatʹs more, the Ministryʹs 
leaning heavily on the Daily Prophet not to report any of what theyʹre calling 
Dumbledoreʹs rumour‐mongering, so most of the wizarding community are 
completely unaware any things happened, and that makes them easy targets for 
the Death Eaters if theyʹre using the Imperius Curse.ʹ 
ʹBut youʹre telling people, arenʹt you?ʹ said Harry, looking around at Mr Weasley, 
Sirius, Bill, Mundungus, Lupin and Tonks. ʹYouʹre letting people know heʹs 
back?ʹ 

They all smiled humourlessly. 
ʹWell, as everyone thinks Iʹm a mad mass‐murderer and the Ministryʹs put a ten 
thousand Galleon price on my head, I can hardly stroll up the street and start 
handing out leaflets, can I?ʹ said Sirius restlessly. 
ʹAnd Iʹm not a very popular dinner guest with most of the community,ʹ said 
Lupin. ʹItʹs an occupational hazard of being a werewolf.ʹ 
ʹTonks and Arthur would lose their jobs at the Ministry if they started shooting 
their mouths off,ʹ said Sirius, ʹand itʹs very important for us to have spies inside 
the Ministry, because you can bet Voldemort will have them.ʹ 
ʹWeʹve managed to convince a couple of people, though,ʹ said Mr Weasley. Tonks 
here, for one ‐ sheʹs too young to have been in the Order of the Phoenix last time, 
and having Aurors on our side is a huge advantage ‐ Kingsley Shackleboltʹs been 
a real asset, too; heʹs in charge of the hunt for Sirius, so heʹs been feeding the 
Ministry information that Sirius is in Tibet.ʹ 
ʹBut if none of you are putting the news out that Voldemorts back ‐ʹ Harry began. 
ʹWho said none of us are putting the news out?ʹ said Sirius. Why dʹyou think 
Dumbledoreʹs in such trouble?ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean?ʹ Harry asked. 
Theyʹre trying to discredit him,ʹ said Lupin. ʹDidnʹt you see the Daily Prophet last 
week? They reported that heʹd been voted out of the Chairmanship of the 
International Confederation of Wizards because heʹs getting old and losing his 
grip, but itʹs not true; he was voted out by Ministry wizards after he made a 
speech announcing Voldemorts return. Theyʹve demoted him from Chief 
Warlock on the Wizengamot ‐ thatʹs the Wizard High Court ‐ and theyʹre talking 
about taking away his Order of Merlin, First Class, too.ʹ 
ʹBut Dumbledore says he doesnʹt care what they do as long as they donʹt take 
him off the Chocolate Frog Cards,ʹ said Bill, grinning. 
ʹItʹs no laughing matter,ʹ said Mr Weasley sharply. ʹIf he carries on defying the 
Ministry like this he could end up in Azkaban, and the last thing we want is to 
have Dumbledore locked up. While You‐Know‐Who knows Dumbledoreʹs out 

there and wise to what heʹs up to heʹs going to go cautiously. If Dumbledoreʹs 
out ol the way ‐ well, You‐Know‐Who will have a clear field.ʹ 
ʹBut if Voldemortʹs trying to recruit more Death Eaters itʹs bound to get out that 
heʹs come back, isnʹt it?ʹ asked Harry desperately. 
ʹVoldemort doesnʹt march up to peopleʹs houses and bang on their front doors, 
Harry,ʹ said Sirius. ʹHe tricks, jinxes and blackmails them. Heʹs well‐practised at 
operating in secret. In any case, gathering followers is only one thing heʹs 
interested in. Heʹs got other plans too, plans he can put into operation very 
quietly indeed, and heʹs concentrating on those for the moment.ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs he after apart from followers?ʹ Harry asked swiftly. He thought he saw 
Sirius and Lupin exchange the most fleeting of looks before Sirius answered. 
ʹStuff he can only get by stealth.ʹ 
When Harry continued to look puzzled, Sirius said, ʹLike a weapon. Something 
he didnʹt have last time.ʹ 
ʹWhen he was powerful before?ʹ 
ʹYes.ʹ 
ʹLike what kind of weapon?ʹ said Harry. ʹSomething worse than the Avada 
Kedavra ‐?ʹ 
ʹThatʹs enough!ʹ 
Mrs Weasley spoke from the shadows beside the door. Harry hadnʹt noticed her 
return from taking Ginny upstairs. Her arms were crossed and she looked 
furious. 
ʹI want you in bed, now. All of you,ʹ she added, looking around at Fred, George, 
Ron and Hermione. 
ʹYou canʹt boss us ‐ʹ Fred began. 
ʹWatch me,ʹ snarled Mrs Weasley. She was trembling slightly as she looked at 
Sirius. ʹYouʹve given Harry plenty of information. Any more and you might just 
as well induct him into the Order straightaway.ʹ 

ʹWhy not?ʹ said Harry quickly. Til join, I want to join, I want to fight.ʹ 
ʹNo.ʹ 
It was not Mrs Weasley who spoke this time, but Lupin. 
The Order is comprised only of overage wizards,ʹ he said. ʹWizards who have left 
school,ʹ he added, as Fred and Georg^ opened their mouths. There are dangers 
involved of which you can have no idea, any of you… I think Mollyʹs right, 
Sirius. Weʹve said enough.ʹ 
Sirius half‐shrugged but did not argue. Mrs Weasley beckoned imperiously to 
her sons and Hermione. One by one they stood up and Harry, recognising 
defeat, followed suit. 
— CHAPTER SIX 
The Noble and Most Ancient House of Black
Mrs Weasley followed them upstairs looking grim. 
ʹI want you all to go straight to bed, no talking,ʹ she said as they reached the first 
landing, ʹweʹve got a busy day tomorrow. I expect Ginnyʹs asleep,ʹ she added to 
Hermione, ʹso try not to wake her up.ʹ 
ʹAsleep, yeah, right,ʹ said Fred in an undertone, after Hermione bade them 
goodnight and they were climbing to the next floor. ʹIf Ginnyʹs not lying awake 
waiting for Hermione to tell her everything they said downstairs then Iʹm a 
Flobberworm…ʹ 
ʹAll right, Ron, Harry,ʹ said Mrs Weasley on the second landing, pointing them 
into their bedroom. ʹOff to bed with you.ʹ 
ʹNight,ʹ Harry and Ron said to the twins. 
ʹSleep tight,ʹ said Fred, winking. 
Mrs Weasley closed the door behind Harry with a sharp snap. The bedroom 
looked, if anything, even danker and gloomier than it had on first sight. The 
blank picture on the wall was now breathing very slowly and deeply, as though 
its invisible occupant was asleep. Harry put on his pyjamas, took off his glasses 

and climbed into his chilly bed while Ron threw Owl Treats up on top of the 
wardrobe to pacify Hedwig and Pigwidgeon, who were clattering around and 
rustling their wings restlessly. 
ʹWe canʹt let them out to hunt every night,ʹ Ron explained as he pulled on his 
maroon pyjamas. ʹDumbledore doesnʹt want too many owls swooping around 
the square, thinks itʹll look suspicious. Oh yeah… I forgot…ʹ 
He crossed to the door and bolted it. 
ʹWhatʹre you doing that for?ʹ 
ʹKreacher,ʹ said Ron as he turned off the light. ʹFirst night I was here he came 
wandering in at three in the morning. Trust me, you donʹt want to wake up and 
find him prowling around your room. Anyway…ʹ he got into his bed, settled 
down under the covers then turned to look at Harry in the darkness; Harry could 
see his outline by the moonlight filtering in through the grimy window, ʹwhat 
dʹyou reckon?ʹ 
Harry didnʹt need to ask what Ron meant. 
ʹWell, they didnʹt tell us much we couldnʹt have guessed, did they?ʹ he said, 
thinking of all that had been said downstairs. ʹI mean, all theyʹve really said is 
that the Orderʹs trying to stop people joining Vol—ʹ 
There was a sharp intake of breath from Ron. 
ʹ—demort,ʹ said Harry firmly. ʹWhen are you going to start using his name? Sirius 
and Lupin do.ʹ 
Ron ignored this last comment. 
ʹYeah, youʹre right,ʹ he said, ʹwe already knew nearly everything they told us, 
from using the Extendable Ears. The only new bit was ‐ʹ 
Crack.
ʹOUCH!ʹ 
ʹKeep your voice down, Ron, or Mumʹll be back up here.ʹ 

ʹYou two just Apparated on my knees!ʹ 
ʹYeah, well, itʹs harder in the dark.ʹ 
Harry saw the blurred outlines of Fred and George leaping down from Ronʹs 
bed. There was a groan of bedsprings and Harryʹs mattress descended a few 
inches as George sat down near his feet. 
ʹSo, got there yet?ʹ said George eagerly. 
The weapon Sirius mentioned?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹLet slip, more like,ʹ said Fred with relish, now sitting next to Ron. ʹWe didnʹt 
hear about that on the old Extendables, did we?ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou reckon it is?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹCould be anything,ʹ said Fred. 
ʹBut there canʹt be anything worse than the Avada Kedavra Curse, can there?ʹ 
said Ron. Whatʹs worse than death?ʹ 
ʹMaybe itʹs something that can kill loads of people at once,ʹ suggested George. 
ʹMaybe itʹs some particularly painful way of killing people,ʹ said Ron fearfully. 
ʹHeʹs got the Cruciatus Curse for causing pain,ʹ said Harry, ʹhe doesnʹt need 
anything more efficient than that.ʹ 
There was a pause and Harry knew that the others, like him, were wondering 
what horrors this weapon could perpetrate. 
ʹSo who dʹyou thinkʹs got it now?ʹ asked George. 
ʹI hope itʹs our side,ʹ said Ron, sounding slightly nervous. 
ʹIf it is, Dumbledoreʹs probably keeping it,ʹ said Fred. *!
ʹWhere?ʹ said Ron quickly. ʹHogwarts?ʹ •ʹ 
ʹBet it is!ʹ said George. Thatʹs where he hid the Philosopherʹs Stone.ʹ 

ʹA weapons going to be a lot bigger than the Stone, though!ʹ said Ron. 
ʹNot necessarilyʹ said Fred. 
ʹYeah, size is no guarantee of power,ʹ said George. ʹLook at Ginny.ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYouʹve never been on the receiving end of one of her Bat‐Bogey Hexes, have 
you?ʹ 
ʹShhh!ʹ said Fred, half‐rising irom the bed. ʹListen!ʹ 
They fell silent. Footsteps were coming up the stairs. 
ʹMum,ʹ said George and without further ado there was a loud crack and Harry 
felt the weight vanish from the end of his bed. A few seconds later, they heard 
the floorboard creak outside their door; Mrs Weasley was plainly listening to 
check whether or not they were talking. 
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon hooted dolefully. The floorboard creaked again and 
they heard her heading upstairs to check on Fred and George. 
ʹShe doesnʹt trust us at all, you know,ʹ said Ron regretfully. 
Harry was sure he would not be able to fall asleep; the evening had been so 
packed with things to think about that he fully expected to lie awake for hours 
mulling it all over. He wanted to continue talking to Ron, but Mrs Weasley was 
now creaking back downstairs again, and once she had gone he distinctly heard 
others making their way upstairs… in fact, many‐legged creatures were 
cantering softly up and down outside the bedroom door, and Hagrid the Care of 
Magical Creatures teacher was saying, ʹBeauties, arm they, eh, Harry? Weʹll be 
studyinʹ weapons this term …ʺ and Harry saw that the creatures had cannons for 
heads and were wheeling to face him… he ducked… 
The next thing he knew, he was curled into a warm ball under his bedclothes and 
Georges loud voice was filling the room. 
ʹMum says get up, your breakfast is in the kitchen and then she needs you in the 
drawing room, there are loads more Doxys than she thought and sheʹs found a 
nest of dead Puffskeins under the sofa.ʹ 

Half an hour later Harry and Ron, who had dressed and breakfasted quickly, 
entered the drawing room, a long, high‐ceilinged room on the first floor with 
olive green walls covered in dirty tapestries. The carpet exhaled little clouds of 
dust every time someone put their foot on it and the long, moss green velvet 
curtains were buzzing as though swarming with invisible bees. It was around 
these that Mrs Weasley, Hermione, Ginny, Fred and George were grouped, all 
looking rather peculiar as they had each tied a cloth over their nose and mouth. 
Each of them was also holding a large bottle of black liquid with a nozzle at the 
end. 
ʹCover your faces and take a spray,ʹ Mrs Weasley said to Harry and Ron the 
moment she saw them, pointing to two more bottles of black liquid standing on a 
spindle‐legged table. ʹItʹs Doxycide. Iʹve never seen an infestation this bad ‐ what 
that house‐elfʹs been doing for the last ten years ‐ʹ 
Hermioneʹs face was half concealed by a tea towel but Harry distinctly saw her 
throw a reproachful look at Mrs Weasley. 
ʹKreacherʹs really old, he probably couldnʹt manage ‐ʹ 
ʹYouʹd be surprised what Kreacher can manage when he wants to, Hermione,ʹ 
said Sirius, who had just entered the room carrying a bloodstained bag of what 
appeared to be dead rats. ʹIʹve just been feeding Buckbeak,ʹ he added, in reply to 
Harrys enquiring look. ʹI keep him upstairs in my mothers bedroom. Anyway… 
this writing desk…ʹ 
He dropped the bag of rals into an armchair, then bent over Jo examine the 
locked cabinet which, Harry now noticed for the fülst time, was shaking slightly. 
ʹWell, Molly, Iʹm pretty sure this is a Boggart,ʹ said Sirius, peering through the 
keyhole, ʹbut perhaps we ought to let Mad‐Eye have a shifty at it before we let it 
out ‐ knowing my mother, it could be something much worse.ʹ 
ʹRight you are, Sirius,ʹ said Mrs Weasley. 
They were both speaking in carefully light, polite voices that told Harry quite 
plainly that neither had forgotten their disagreement of the night before. 
A loud, clanging bell sounded from downstairs, followed at once by the 
cacophony of screams and wails that had been triggered the previous night by 
Tonks knocking over the umbrella stand. 

ʹI keep telling them not to ring the doorbell!ʹ said Sirius exas‐peratedly, hurrying 
out of the room. They heard him thundering down the stairs as Mrs Blackʹs 
screeches echoed up through the house once more: 
ʹStains, of dishonour, filthy half‐breeds, blood traitors, children of filth
ʹClose the door, please, Harry,ʹ said Mrs Weasley. 
Harry took as much time as he dared to close the drawing‐room door; he wanted 
to listen to what was going on downstairs. Sirius had obviously managed to shut 
the curtains over his motherʹs portrait because she had stopped screaming. He 
heard Sirius walking down the hall, then the clattering of the chain on the front 
door, and then a deep voice he recognised as Kingsley Shackleboltʹs saying, 
ʹHestiaʹs just relieved me, so sheʹs got Moodyʹs Cloak now, thought Iʹd leave a 
report for Dumbledore…ʹ 
Feeling Mrs Weasleyʹs eyes on the back of his head, Harry regretfully closed the 
drawing‐room door and rejoined the Doxy party. 
Mrs Weasley was bending over to check the page on Doxys in Gilderoy Lockhartʹs 
Guide to Household Pests, which was lying open on the sofa. 
ʹRight, you lot, you need to be careful, because Doxys bite and their teeth are 
poisonous. Iʹve got a bottle of antidote here, but Iʹd rather nobody needed it.ʹ 
She straightened up, positioned herself squarely in front of the curtains and 
beckoned them all forward. 
ʹWhen I say the word, start spraying immediately,ʹ she said. Theyʹll come Hying 
out at us, I expect, but it says on the sprays one good squirt will paralyse them. 
When theyʹre immobilised, just throw them in this bucket.ʹ 
She stepped carefully out of their line of fire, and raised her own spray. 
ʹAll right ‐ squirt!ʹ 
Harry had been spraying only a few seconds when a fully‐grown Doxy came 
soaring out of a fold in the material, shiny beetle‐like wings whirring, tiny 
needle‐sharp teeth bared, its fairy‐like body covered with thick black hair and its 
four tiny lists clenched with fury. Harry caught it full in the face with a blast of 

Doxycide. It froze in midair and fell, with a surprisingly loud thunk, on to the 
worn carpet below. Harry picked it up and threw it in the bucket. 
ʹFred, what are you doing?ʹ said Mrs Weasley sharply. ʹSpray that at once and 
throw it away!ʹ 
Harry looked round. Fred was holding a struggling Doxy between his forefinger 
and thumb. 
ʹRight‐o,ʹ Fred said brightly, spraying the Doxy quickly in the face so that it 
fainted, but the moment Mrs Weasleyʹs back was turned he pocketed it with a 
wink. 
ʹWe want to experiment with Doxy venom for our Skiving Snackboxes,ʹ George 
told Harry under his breath. 
Deftly spraying two Doxys at once as they soared straight for his nose, Harry 
moved closer to George and muttered out of the corner of his mouth, ʹWhat are 
Skiving Snackboxes?ʹ 
ʹRange of sweets to make you ill,ʹ George whispered, keeping a wary eye on Mrs 
Weasleyʹs back. ʹNot seriously ill, mind, just ill enough to get you out of a class 
when you feel like it. Fred and I have been developing them this summer. 
Theyʹre double‐ended, colour‐coded chews. If you eat the orange half of the 
Puking Pastilles, you throw up. Moment youʹve been rushed out of the lesson for 
the hospital wing, you swallow the purple half ‐ʹ 
ʹʹ‐ which restores you to full fitness, enabling you to pursue the leisure activity of 
your own choice during an hour that would otherwise have been devoted to 
unprofitable boredom.ʺ Thatʹs what weʹre putting in the adverts, anyway,ʹ 
whispered Fred, who had edged over out of Mrs Weasleyʹs line of vision and 
was now sweeping a few stray Doxys from the floor and adding them to his 
pocket. ʹBut they still need a bit of work. At the moment our testers are having a 
bit of trouble stopping themselves puking long enough to swallow the purple 
end.ʹ 
Testers?ʹ 
ʹUs,ʹ said Fred. ʹWe take it in turns. George did the Fainting Fancies ‐ we both 
tried the Nosebleed Nougat ‐ʹ 

ʹMum thought weʹd been duelling,ʹ said George. 
ʹJoke shop still on, then?ʹ Harry muttered, pretending to be adjusting the nozzle 
on his spray. 
ʹWell, we havenʹt had a chance to get premises yet,ʹ said Fred, dropping his voice 
even lower as Mrs Weasley mopped her brow with her scarf before returning to 
the attack, ʹso weʹre running it as a mail‐order service at the moment. We put 
advertisements in the Daily Prophet last week.ʹ 
ʹAll thanks to you, mate,ʹ said George. ʹBut donʹt worry… Mum hasnʹt got a clue. 
She wonʹt read the Daily Prophet any more, ʹcause of it telling lies about you and 
Dumbledore.ʹ 
Harry grinned. He had forced the Weasley twins to take the thousand Galleons 
prize money he had won in the Triwizard Tournament to help them realise their 
ambition to open a joke shop, but he was still glad to know that his part in 
furthering their plans was unknown to Mrs Weasley. She did not think running a 
joke shop was a suitable career for two of her sons. 
The de‐Doxying of the curtains took most of the morning. It was past midday 
when Mrs Weasley finally removed her protective scarf, sank into a sagging 
armchair and sprang up again with a cry of disgust, having sat on the bag of 
dead rats. The curtains were no longer buzzing; they hung limp and damp from 
the intensive spraying. At the foot of them unconscious Doxys lay crammed in 
the bucket beside a bowl of their black eggs, at which Crook‐shanks was now 
sniffing and Fred and George were shooting covetous looks. 
ʹI think weʹll tackle those after lunch.ʹ Mrs Weasley pointed at the dusty glass‐
fronted cabinets standing on either side of the mantelpiece. They were crammed 
with an odd assortment of objects: a selection of rusty daggers, claws, a coiled 
snakeskin, a number of tarnished silver boxes inscribed with languages Harry 
could not understand and, least pleasant of all, an ornate crystal bottle with a 
large opal set into the stopper, full of what Harry was quite sure was blood. 
The clanging doorbell rang again. Everyone looked at Mrs Weasley. 
ʹStay here,ʹ she said firmly, snatching up the bag of rats as Mrs Blackʹs screeches 
started up again from down below. Iʹll bring up some sandwiches.ʹ 

She left the room, closing the door carefully behind her. At once, everyone 
dashed over to the window to look down on the doorstep. They could see the top 
of an unkempt gingery head and a stack of precariously balanced cauldrons. 
ʹMundungus!ʹ said Hermione. ʹWhatʹs he brought all those cauldrons for?ʹ 
ʹProbably looking for a sale place to keep them,ʹ said Harry. ʹIsnʹt that what he 
was doing the night he was supposed to be tailing me? Picking up dodgy 
cauldrons?ʹ 
ʹYeah, youʹre right!ʹ said Fred, as the front door opened; Mundungus heaved his 
cauldrons through it and disappeared from view. ʹBlimey, Mum wonʹt like 
that…ʹ 
He and George crossed to the door and stood beside it, listening closely. Mrs 
Blackʹs screaming had stopped. 
ʹMundungus is talking to Sirius and Kingsley,ʹ Fred muttered, frowning with 
concentration. ʹCanʹt hear properly… dʹyou reckon we can risk the Extendable 
Ears?ʹ 
ʹMight be worth it,ʹ said George. ʹI could sneak upstairs and get a pair ‐ʹ 
But at that precise moment there was an explosion of sound from downstairs 
that rendered Extendable Ears quite unnecessary. All of them could hear exactly 
what Mrs Weasley was shouting at the top of her voice. 
WE ARE NOT RUNNING A HIDEOUT FOR STOLEN GOODS!ʹ 
I love hearing Mum shouting at someone else,ʹ said Fred, with a satisfied smile 
on his face as he opened the door an inch or so to allow Mrs Weasleyʹs voice to 
permeate the room better, ʹit makes such a nice change.ʹ 
ʹ‐ COMPLETELY IRRESPONSIBLE, AS IF WE HAVENʹT GOT ENOUGH TO 
WORRY ABOUT WITHOUT YOU DRAGGING STOLEN CAULDRONS INTO 
THE HOUSE ‐ʹ 
The idiots are letting her get into her stride,ʹ said George, shaking his head. 
ʹYouʹve got to head her off early otherwise she builds up a head of steam and 
goes on for hours. And sheʹs been dying to have a go at Mundungus ever since 

he sneaked off when he was supposed to be following you, Harry ‐ and there 
goes Siriusʹs mum again.ʹ 
Mrs Weasleyʹs voice was lost amid fresh shrieks and screams from the portraits 
in the hall. 
George made to shut the door to drown the noise, but before he could do so, a 
house‐elf edged into the room. 
Except for the filthy rag tied like a loincloth around its middle, it was completely 
naked. It looked very old. Its skin seemed to be several times too big for it and, 
though it was bald like all house‐elves, there was a quantity of white hair 
growing out of its large, batlike ears. Its eyes were a bloodshot and watery grey 
and its fleshy nose was large and rather snoutlike. 
The elf took absolutely no notice of Harry and the rest. Acting as though it could 
not see them, it shuffled hunchbacked, slowly and doggedly, towards the far end 
of the room, all the while muttering under its breath in a hoarse, deep voice like a 
bullfrogs. 
ʹ… smells like a drain and a criminal to boot, but sheʹs no better, nasty old blood 
traitor with her brats messing up my mistressʹs house, oh, my poor mistress, if 
she knew, if she knew the scum theyʹve let into her house, what would she say to 
old Kreacher, oh, the shame of it, Mudbloods and werewolves and traitors and 
thieves, poor old Kreacher, what can he do…ʹ 
ʹHello, Kreacher,ʹ said Fred very loudly, closing the door with a snap. 
The house‐elf froze in his tracks, stopped muttering, and gave a very 
pronounced and very unconvincing start of surprise. 
ʹKreacher did not see young master,ʹ he said, turning around and bowing to 
Fred. Still facing the carpet, he added, perfectly audibly, ʹNasty little brat of a 
blood traitor it is.ʹ 
ʹSorry?ʹ said George. ʹDidnʹt catch that last bit.ʹ 
ʹKreacher said nothing,ʹ said the elf, with a second bow to George, adding in a 
clear undertone, ʹand thereʹs its twin, unnatural little beasts they are.ʹ 

Harry didnʹt know whether to laugh or not. The elf straightened up, eyeing them 
all malevolently, and apparently convinced that they could not hear him as he 
continued to mutter. 
ʹ… and thereʹs the Mudblood, standing there bold as brass, oh, if my mistress 
knew, oh, how sheʹd cry, and thereʹs a new boy, Kreacher doesnʹt know his 
name. What is he doing here? Kreacher doesnʹt know…ʺ 
This is Harry, Kreacher,ʹ said Herrmone tentatively. ʹHarry Potter.ʹ 
Kreacherʹs pale eyes widened and he muttered faster and more furiously than 
ever. 
The Mudblood is talking to Kreacher as though she is my friend, if Kreacherʹs 
mistress saw him in such company, oh, what would she say ‐ʹ 
ʹDonʹt call her a Mudblood!ʹ said Ron and Ginny together, very angrily. 
ʹIt doesnʹt matter,ʹ Hermione whispered, ʹheʹs not in his right mind, he doesnʹt 
know what heʹs ‐ʹ 
ʹDonʹt kid yourself, Hermione, he knows exactly what heʹs saying,ʹ said Fred, 
eyeing Kreacher with great dislike. 
Kreacher was still muttering, his eyes on Harry. 
ʹIs it true? Is it Harry Potter? Kreacher can see the scar, it must be true, thatʹs the 
boy who stopped the Dark Lord, Kreacher wonders how he did it ‐ʹ 
ʹDonʹt we all, Kreacher,ʹ said Fred. 
ʹWhat do you want, anyway?ʹ George asked. 
Kreacherʹs huge eyes darted towards George. 
ʹKreacher is cleaning,ʹ he said evasively. 
ʹA likely story,ʹ said a voice behind Harry. 
Sirius had come back; he was glowering at the elf from the doorway. The noise in 
the hall had abated; perhaps Mrs Weasley and Mundungus had moved their 
argument down into the kitchen. 

At the sight of Sirius, Kreacher flung himself into a ridiculously low bow that 
flattened his snoutltke nose on the floor. 
ʹStand up straight,ʹ said Sirius impatiently. ʹNow, what are you up to?ʹ 
ʹKreacher is cleaning,ʹ the elf repeated. ʹKreacher lives to serve the Noble House 
of Black ‐ʹ 
ʹAnd itʹs getting blacker every day, itʹs filthy,ʹ said Sirius. 
ʹMaster always liked his little joke,ʹ said Kreacher, bowing again, and continuing 
in an undertone, ʹMaster was a nasty ungrateful swine who broke his motherʹs 
heart ‐ʹ 
ʹMy mother didnʹt have a heart, Kreacher,ʹ snapped Sirius. ʹShe kept herself alive 
out of pure spite.ʹ 
Kreacher bowed again as he spoke. 
ʹWhatever Master says,ʹ he muttered furiously. ʹMaster is not fit to wipe slime 
from his motherʹs boots, oh, my poor mistress, what would she say if she saw 
Kreacher serving him, how she hated him, what a disappointment he was ‐ʹ 
ʹ1 asked you what you were up to,ʹ said Sirius coldly. ʹEvery time you show up 
pretending to be cleaning, you sneak something off to your room so we canʹt 
throw it out.ʹ 
ʹKreacher would never move anything from its proper place in Masterʹs house,ʹ 
said the elf, then muttered very fast, ʹMistress would never forgive Kreacher if 
the tapestry was thrown out, seven centuries itʹs been in the family, Kreacher 
must save it, Kreacher will not let Master and the blood traitors and the brats 
destroy it ‐ʹ 
ʹI thought it might be that,ʹ said Sirius, casting a disdainful look at the opposite 
wall. ʹSheʹll have put another Permanent Sticking Charm on the back of it, I donʹt 
doubt, but if 1 can get rid of it I certainly will. Now go away, Kreacher.ʹ 
It seemed that Kreacher did not dare disobey a direct order; nevertheless, the 
look he gave Sirius as he shuffled out past him was full of deepest loathing and 
he muttered all the way out of the room. 

ʹ‐ comes back from Azkaban ordering Kreacher around, oh, my poor mistress, 
what would she say if she saw the house now, scum living in it, her treasures 
thrown out, she swore he was no son of hers and heʹs back, they say heʹs a 
murderer too ‐ʹ 
ʹKeep muttering and I will be a murderer!ʹ said Sirius irritably as he slammed the 
door shut on the elf. 
ʹSirius, heʹs not right in the head,ʹ Hermione pleaded, ʹ1 donʹt think he realises we 
can hear him.ʹ 
ʹHeʹs been alone too long,ʹ said Sirius, ʹtaking mad orders from my motherʹs 
portrait and talking to himself, but he was always a foul little ‐ʹ 
ʹIf you could just set him free,ʹ said Hermione hopefully, ʹmaybe ‐ʹ 
ʹWe canʹt set him free, he knows too much about the Order,ʹ said Sirius curtly. 
ʹAnd anyway, the shock would kill him. You suggest to him that he leaves this 
house, see how he takes it.ʹ 
Sirius walked across the room to where the tapestry Kreacher had been trying to 
protect hung the length of the wall. Harry and the others followed. 
The tapestry looked immensely old; it was faded and looked as though Doxys 
had gnawed it in places. Nevertheless, the golden thread with which it was 
embroidered still glinted brightly enough to show them a sprawling family tree 
dating back (as far as Harry could tell) to the Middle Ages. Large words at the 
very top of the tapestry read: 
The Noble and Most Ancient House oj Black Toujours purʹ 
ʹYouʹre not on here!ʹ said Harry, after scanning the bottom of the tree closely. 
ʹI used to be there,ʹ said Sirius, pointing at a small, round, charred hole in the 
tapestry, rather like a cigarette burn. ʹMy sweet old mother blasted me off after I 
ran away from home ‐ Kreacherʹs quite fond of muttering the story under his 
breath.ʹ 
ʹYou ran away from home?ʹ 
ʹWhen I was about sixteen,ʹ said Sirius. ʹIʹd had enough.ʹ 

ʹWhere did you go?ʹ asked Harry, staring at him. 
ʹYour dadʹs place,ʹ said Sirius. ʹYour grandparents were really good about it; they 
sort of adopted me as a second son. Yeah, I camped out at your dadʹs in the 
school holidays, and when I was seventeen I got a place of my own. My Uncle 
Alphard had left me a decent bit of gold ‐ heʹs been wiped off here, too, thatʹs 
probably why ‐ anyway, after that I looked after myself. I was always welcome at 
Mr and Mrs Potterʹs for Sunday lunch, though.ʹ 
ʹBut… why did you… ?ʹ 
ʹLeave?ʹ Sirius smiled bitterly and ran his fingers through his long, unkempt hair. 
ʹBecause I hated the whole lot of them: my parents, with their pure‐blood mania, 
convinced that to be a Black made you practically royal… my idiot brother, soft 
enough to believe them… thatʹs him.ʹ 
Sirius jabbed a finger at the very bottom of the tree, at the name ʹRegulus Blackʹ. 
A date of death (some fifteen years previously) followed the date of birth. 
ʹHe was younger than me,ʹ said Sirius, ʹand a much better son, as 1 was 
constantly reminded.ʹ 
ʹBut he died,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Sirius. ʹStupid idiot… he joined the Death Eaters.ʹ 
ʹYouʹre kidding!ʹ 
ʹCome on, Harry, havenʹt you seen enough of this house to tell what kind of 
wizards my family were?ʹ said Sirius testily. 
ʹWere ‐ were your parents Death Eaters as well?ʹ 
ʹNo, no, but believe me, they thought Voldemort had the right idea, they were all 
for the purification of the wizarding race, getting rid of Muggle‐borns and 
having pure‐bloods in charge. They werenʹt alone, either, there were quite a few 
people, before Voldemort showed his true colours, who thought he had the right 
idea about things… they got cold feet when they saw what he was prepared to 
do to get power, though. But I bet my parents thought Regulus was a right little 
hero for joining up at first.ʹ 

ʹWas he killed by an Auror?ʹ Harry asked tentatively. 
ʹOh, no,ʹ said Sirius. ʹNo, he was murdered by Voldemort. Or on Voldemortʹs 
orders, more likely; I doubt Regulus was ever important enough to be killed by 
Voldemort in person. From what I found out after he died, he got in so far, then 
panicked about what he was being asked to do and tried to back out. Well, you 
donʹt just hand in your resignation to Voldemort. Itʹs a lifetime of service or 
death.ʹ 
ʹLunch,ʹ said Mrs Weasleys voice. 
She was holding her wand high in front of her, balancing a huge tray loaded 
with sandwiches and cake on its tip. She was very red in the face and still looked 
angry. The others moved over to her, eager for some food, but Harry remained 
with Sirius, who had bent closer to the tapestry. 
ʹI havenʹt looked at this for years. Thereʹs Phineas Nigellus… my great‐great‐
grandfather, see?… least popular Headmaster Hogwarts ever had… and 
Araminta Mehflua… cousin of my mothers… tried to force through a Ministry 
Bill to make Muggle‐hunting legal… and dear Aunt Elladora… she started the 
family tradition of beheading house‐elves when they got too old to carry tea 
trays… of course, any time the family produced someone halfway decent they 
were disowned. I see Tonks isnʹt on here. Maybe thatʹs why Kreacher wonʹt take 
orders from her ‐ heʹs supposed to do whatever anyone in the family asks him ‐ʹ 
ʹYou and Tonks are related?ʹ Harry asked, surprised. 
ʹOh, yeah, her mother Andromeda was my favourite cousin,ʹ said Sirius, 
examining the tapestry closely. ʹNo, Andromedaʹs not on here either, look ‐ʹ 
He pointed to another small round burn mark between two names, Bellatrix and 
Narcissa. 
ʹAndromedaʹs sisters are still here because they made lovely, respectable pure‐
blood marriages, but Andromeda married a Muggle‐born, Ted Tonks, so ‐ʹ 
Sirius mimed blasting the tapestry with a wand and laughed sourly. Harry, 
however, did not laugh; he was too busy staring at the names to the right of 
Andromedaʹs burn mark. A double line of gold embroidery linked Narcissa 
Black with Lucius Malfoy and a single vertical gold line from their names led to 
the name Draco. 

ʹYouʹre related to the Malfoys!ʹ 
The pure‐blood families are all interrelated,ʹ said Sirius. Tf youʹre only going to 
let your sons and daughters marry pure‐bloods your choice is very limited; there 
are hardly any of us left. Molly and I are cousins by marriage and Arthurʹs 
something like my second cousin once removed. But thereʹs no point looking for 
them on here ‐ if ever a family was a bunch of blood traitors itʹs the Weasleys.ʹ 
But Harry was now looking at the name to the left of Andromedaʹs burn: 
Bellatrix Black, which was connected by a double line to Rodolphus Lestrange. 
ʹLestrange…ʹ Harry said aloud. The name had stirred something in his memory; 
he knew it from somewhere, but for a moment he couldnʹt think where, though it 
gave him an odd, creeping sensation in the pit of his stomach. 
Theyʹre in Azkaban,ʹ said Sirius shortly. 
Harry looked at him curiously. 
ʹBellatrix and her husband Rodolphus came in with Barty Crouch junior,ʹ said 
Sirius, in the same brusque voice. ʹRodolphuss brother Rabastan was with them, 
too.ʹ 
Then Harry remembered. He had seen Bellatrix Lestrange inside Dumbledoreʹs 
Pensieve, the strange device in which thoughts and memories could be stored: a 
tall dark woman with heavy‐lidded eyes, who had stood at her trial and 
proclaimed her continuing allegiance to Lord Voldemort, her pride that she had 
tried to find him after his downfall and her conviction that she would one day be 
rewarded for her loyalty. 
ʹYou never said she was your ‐ʹ 
ʹDoes it matter if sheʹs my cousin?ʹ snapped Sirius. ʹAs far as Iʹm concerned, 
theyʹre not my family. Sheʹs certainly not my family. I havenʹt seen her since I 
was your age, unless you count a glimpse of her coming into Azkaban. Dʹyou 
think Iʹm proud of having a relative like her?ʹ 
ʹSorry,ʹ said Harry quickly, ʹI didnʹt mean ‐ I was just surprised, thatʹs all ‐ʹ 
ʹIt doesnʹt matter, donʹt apologise,ʹ Sirius mumbled. He turned away from the 
tapestry, his hands deep in his pockets. ʹI donʹt like being back here,ʹ he said, 

staring across the drawing room. ʹI never thought Iʹd be stuck in this house 
again.ʹ 
Harry understood completely. He knew how he would feel, when he was grown 
up and thought he was free of the place for ever, to return and live at number 
four, Privet Drive. 
ʹItʹs ideal for Headquarters, of course,ʹ Sirius said. ʹMy father put every security 
measure known to wizardkind on it when he lived here. Itʹs unplottable, so 
Muggles could never come and call ‐ as if theyʹd ever have wanted to ‐ and now 
Dumbledoreʹs added his protection, youʹd be hard put to find a safer house 
anywhere. Dumbledore is Secret Keeper for the Order, you know ‐ nobody can 
find Headquarters unless he tells them personally where it is ‐ that note Moody 
showed you last night, that was from Dumbledore…ʹ Sirius gave a short, bark‐
like laugh. ʹIf my parents could see the use their house was being put to now… 
well, my mothers portrait should give you some idea 
He scowled for a moment, then sighed. 
ʹI wouldnʹt mind if I could just get out occasionally and do something useful. Iʹve 
asked Dumbledore whether I can escort you to your hearing ‐ as Snuffles, 
obviously ‐ so I can give you a bit of moral support, what dʹyou think?ʹ 
Harry felt as though his stomach had sunk through the dusty carpet. He had not 
thought about the hearing once since dinner the previous evening; in the 
excitement of being back with the people he liked best, and hearing everything 
that was going on, it had completely flown his mind. At Siriusʹs words, however, 
the crushing sense of dread returned to him. He stared at Hermione and the 
Weasleys, all tucking into their sandwiches, and thought how he would feel if 
they went back to Hogwarts without him. 
ʹDonʹt worry,ʹ Sirius said. Harry looked up and realised that Sirius had been 
watching him. ʹIʹm sure theyʹll clear you, thereʹs definitely something in the 
International Statute of Secrecy about being allowed to use magic to save your 
own life.ʹ 
ʹBut if they do expel me,ʹ said Harry quietly, ʹcan I come back here and live with 
you?ʹ 
Sirius smiled sadly. 

ʹWeʹll see.ʹ 
ʹIʹd feel a lot better about the hearing if I knew I didnʹt have to go back to the 
Dursleysʹ,ʹ Harry pressed him. 
ʹThey must be bad if you prefer this place,ʹ said Sirius gloomily. 
ʹHurry up, you two, or there wonʹt be any food left,ʹ Mrs Weasley called. 
Sirius heaved another great sigh, cast a dark look at the tapestry, then he and 
Harry went to join the others. 
Harry tried his best not to think about the hearing while they emptied the glass‐
fronted cabinets that afternoon. Fortunately for him, it was a job that required a 
lot of concentration, as many of the objects in there seemed very reluctant to 
leave their dusty shelves. Sirius sustained a bad bite from a silver snuffbox; 
within seconds his bitten hand had developed an unpleasant crusty covering like 
a tough brown glove. 
ʹIts OK,ʹ he said, examining the hand with interest before tapping it lightly with 
his wand and restoring its skin to normal, ʹmust be Wartcap powder in there.ʹ 
He threw the box aside into the sack where they were depositing the debris from 
the cabinets; Harry saw George wrap his own hand carefully in a cloth moments 
later and sneak the box into his already Doxy‐filled pocket. 
They found an unpleasant‐looking silver instrument, something like a many‐
legged pair of tweezers, which scuttled up Harrys arm like a spider when he 
picked it up, and attempted to puncture his skin. Sirius seized it and smashed it 
with a heavy book entitled Natureʹs Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy. There was a 
musical box that emitted a faintly sinister, tinkling tune when wound, and they 
all found themselves becoming curiously weak and sleepy, until Ginny had the 
sense to slam the lid shut; a heavy locket that none of them could open; a number 
of ancient seals; and, in a dusty box, an Order of Merlin, First Class, that had 
been awarded to Siriusʹs grandfather for ʹservices to the Ministryʹ. 
ʹIt means he gave them a load of gold,ʹ said Sirius contemptuously, throwing the 
medal into the rubbish sack. 
Several times Kreacher sidled into the room and attempted to smuggle things 
away under his loincloth, muttering horrible curses every time they caught him 

at it. When Sirius wrested a large golden ring bearing the Black crest from his 
grip, Kreacher actually burst into furious tears and left the room sobbing under 
his breath and calling Sirius names Harry had never heard before. 
ʹIt was my fatherʹs,ʹ said Sirius, throwing the ring into the sack. ʹKreacher wasnʹt 
quite as devoted to him as to my mother, but 1 still caught him snogging a pair of 
my fatherʹs old trousers last week.ʹ 
Weasley kept them all working very hard over the next few days. The drawing 
room took three days to decontaminate. Finally, the only undesirable things left 
in it were the tapestry of the Black family tree, which resisted all their attempts to 
remove it from the wall, and the rattling writing desk. Moody had not dropped by 
Headquarters yet, so they could not be sure what was inside it. 
They moved from the drawing room to a dining room on the ground floor where 
they found spiders as large as saucers lurking in the dresser (Ron left the room 
hurriedly to make a cup of tea and did not return for an hour and a half). The 
china, which bore the Black crest and motto, was all thrown unceremoniously 
into a sack by Sirius, and the same fate met a set of old photographs in tarnished 
silver frames, all of whose occupants squealed shrilly as the glass covering them 
smashed. 
Snape might refer to their work as ʹcleaningʹ, but in Harrys opinion they were 
really waging war on the house, which was putting up a very good fight, aided 
and abetted by Kreacher. The house‐elf kept appearing wherever they were 
congregated, his muttering becoming more and more offensive as he attempted 
to remove anything he could from the rubbish sacks. Sirius went as far as to 
threaten him with clothes, but Kreacher fixed him with a watery stare and said, 
ʹMaster must do as Master wishes,ʹ before turning away and muttering very 
loudly, ʹbut Master will not turn Kreacher away, no, because Kreacher knows 
what they are up to, oh yes, he is plotting against the Dark Lord, yes, with these 
Mudbloods and traitors and scum…ʹ 
At which Sirius, ignoring Hermioneʹs protests, seized Kreacher by the back of his 
loincloth and threw him bodily from the room. 
The doorbell rang several times a day, which was the cue for Siriusʹs mother to 
start shrieking again, and for Harry and the others to attempt to eavesdrop on 
the visitor, though they gleaned very little from the brief glimpses and snatches 
of conversation they were able to sneak before Mrs Weasley recalled them to 

their tasks. Snape flitted in and out of the house several times more, though to 
Harryʹs relief they never came face to face; Harry also caught sight of his 
Transfiguration teacher Professor McGonagall, looking very odd in a Muggle 
dress and coat, and she also seemed too busy to linger. Sometimes, however, the 
visitors stayed to help. Tonks joined them for a memorable afternoon in which 
they found a murderous old ghoul lurking in an upstairs toilet, and Lupin, who 
was staying in the house with Sirius but who left it for long periods to do 
mysterious work for the Order, helped them repair a grandfather clock that had 
developed the unpleasant habit of shooting heavy bolts at passers‐by. 
Mundungus redeemed himself slightly in Mrs Weasleyʹs eyes by rescuing Ron 
from an ancient set of purple robes that had tried to strangle him when he 
removed them from their wardrobe. 
Despite the fact that he was still sleeping badly, still having dreams about 
corridors and locked doors that made his scar prickle, Harry was managing to 
have fun for the first time all summer. As long as he was busy he was happy; 
when the action abated, however, whenever he dropped his guard, or lay 
exhausted in bed watching blurred shadows move across the ceiling, the thought 
of the looming Ministry hearing returned to him. Fear jabbed at his insides like 
needles as he wondered what was going to happen to him if he was expelled. 
The idea was so terrible that he did not dare voice it aloud, not even to Ron and 
Hermione, who, though he often saw them whispering together and casting 
anxious looks in his direction, followed his lead in not mentioning it. Sometimes, 
he could not prevent his imagination showing him a faceless Ministry official 
who was snapping his wand in two and ordering him back to the Dursleysʹ… 
but he would not go. He was determined on that. He would come back here to 
Grimmauld Place and live with Sirius. 
He felt as though a brick had dropped into his stomach when Mrs Weasley 
turned to him during dinner on Wednesday evening and said quietly, ʹIʹve 
ironed your best clothes for tomorrow morning, Harry, and I want you to wash 
your hair tonight, too. A good first impression can work wonders.ʹ 
Ron, Hermione, Fred, George and Ginny all stopped talking and looked over at 
him. Harry nodded and tried to keep eating his chop, but his mouth had become 
so dry he could not chew. 
ʹHow am I getting there?ʹ he asked Mrs Weasley, trying to sound unconcerned. 
ʹArthurs taking you to work with him,ʹ said Mrs Weasley gently. 

Mr Weasley smiled encouragingly at Harry across the table. 
ʹYou can wait in my office until itʹs time for the hearing,ʹ he said. 
Harry looked over at Sirius, but before he could ask the question, Mrs Weasley 
had answered it. 
ʹProfessor Dumbledore doesnʹt think itʹs a good idea for Sirius to go with you, 
and I must say I ‐ʹ 
ʹ‐ think heʹs quite right,ʹ said Sirius through clenched teeth. 
Mrs Weasley pursed her lips. 
ʹWhen did Dumbledore tell you that?ʹ Harry said, staring at Sirius. 
ʹHe came last night, when you were in bed,ʹ said Mr Weasley. 
Sirius stabbed moodily at a potato with his fork. Harry lowered his own eyes to 
his plate. The thought that Dumbledore had been in the house on the eve of his 
hearing and not asked to see him made him feel, if it were possible, even worse. 
Notes to server (remove this)
-Removed messy crossbrowser crap
-Removed messy CSS which didn't work
-Read and proofed
-All &quot are now "
-All speaking is enclosed in "
-Validated the HTML (4.0 Strict)
22/06/03

CHAPTER SEVEN
THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
Harry awoke at half past five the next morning as abruptly and completely as if
somebody had yelled in his ear. For a few moments he lay immobile as the prospect of
the disciplinary hearing filled every tiny particle of his brain, then, unable to bear it, he
leapt out of bed and put on his glasses. Mrs Weasley had laid out his freshly laundered
jeans and T-shirt at the foot of his bed. Harry scrambled into them. The blank picture on
the wall sniggered.
Ron was lying sprawled on his back with his mouth wide open, fast asleep. He did not
stir as Harry crossed the room, stepped out on to the landing and closed the door softly
behind him. Trying not to think of the next time he would see Ron, when they might no

longer be fellow students at Hogwarts, Harry walked quietly down the stairs, past the
heads of Kreacher's ancestors, and down into the kitchen.
He had expected it to be empty, but when he reached the door he heard the soft rumble of
voices on the other side. He pushed it open and saw Mr and Mrs Weasley, Sirius, Lupin
and Tonks sitting there almost as though they were waiting for him. All were fully
dressed except Mrs Weasley, who was wearing a quilted purple dressing gown. She leapt
to her feet the moment Harry entered.
"Breakfast," she said as she pulled out her wand and hurried over to the fire.
"M - m - morning, Harry," yawned Tonks. Her hair was blonde and curly this morning.
"Sleep all right?"
"Yeah," said Harry.
"I've b - b - been up all night," she said, with another shuddering yawn. "Come and sit
down ..."
She drew out a chair, knocking over the one beside it in the process.
"What do you want, Harry?" Mrs Weasley called. "Porridge? Muffins? Kippers? Bacon
and eggs? Toast?"
"Just - just toast, thanks," said Harry.
Lupin glanced at Harry, then said to Tonks, "What were you saying about Scrimgeour?"
"Oh ... yeah ... well, we need to be a bit more careful, he's been asking Kingsley and me
funny questions ..."
Harry felt vaguely grateful that he was not required to join in the conversation. His
insides were squirming. Mrs Weasley placed a couple of pieces of toast and marmalade
in front of him; he tried to eat, but it was like chewing carpet. Mrs Weasley sat down on
his other side and started fussing with his T-shirt, tucking in the label and smoothing out
the creases across his shoulders. He wished she wouldn't.
"... and I'll have to tell Dumbledore I can't do night duty tomorrow, I'm just too tired,"
Tonks finished, yawning hugely again.
"I'll cover for you," said Mr Weasley. "I'm OK, I've got a report to finish anyway
Mr Weasley was not wearing wizards' robes but a pair of pinstriped trousers and an old
bomber jacket. He turned from Tonks to Harry.
"How are you feeling?"

Harry shrugged.
"It'll all be over soon," Mr Weasley said bracingly. In a few hours' time you'll be
cleared."
Harry said nothing.
The hearing's on my floor, in Amelia Bones's office. She's Head of the Department of
Magical Law Enforcement, and the one who'll be questioning you."
"Amelia Bones is OK, Harry," said Tonks earnestly. "She's fair, she'll hear you out."
Harry nodded, still unable to think of anything to say.
"Don't lose your temper," said Sirius abruptly. "Be polite and stick to the facts."
Harry nodded again.
"The law's on your side," said Lupin quietly. "Even underage wizards are allowed to use
magic in life-threatening situations."
Something very cold trickled down the back of Harrys neck; for a moment he thought
someone was putting a Disillusionment Charm on him, then he realised that Mrs Weasley
was attacking his hair with a wet comb. She pressed hard on the top of his head.
"Doesn't it ever lie flat?" she said desperately.
Harry shook his head.
Mr Weasley checked his watch and looked up at Harry.
"I think we'll go now," he said. "We're a bit early but I think you'll be better off at the
Ministry than hanging around here."
"OK," said Harry automatically, dropping his toast and getting to his feet.
"You'll be all right, Harry," said Tonks, patting him on the arm.
"Good luck," said Lupin. I'm sure it will be fine."
"And if it's not," said Sirius grimly "I'll see to Amelia Bones for you ..."
Harry smiled weakly. Mrs Weasley hugged him.
"We've all got our fingers crossed," she said.

"Right," said Harry. "Well ... see you later then."
He followed Mr Weasley upstairs and along the hall. He could hear Sirius's mother
grunting in her sleep behind her curtains. Mr Weasley unbolted the door and they stepped
out into the cold, grey dawn.
"You don't normally walk to work, do you?" Harry asked him, as they set off briskly
around the square.
"No, I usually Apparate," said Mr Weasley, "but obviously you can't, and I think it's best
we arrive in a thoroughly non-magical fashion ... makes a better impression, given what
you're being disciplined for ..."
Mr Weasley kept his hand inside his jacket as they walked. Harry knew it was clenched
around his wand. The run-down streets were almost deserted, but when they arrived at the
miserable little underground station they found it already full of early-morning
commuters. As ever when he found himself in close proximity to Muggles going about
their daily business, Mr Weasley was hard put to contain his enthusiasm.
"Simply fabulous," he whispered, indicating the automatic ticket machines. "Wonderfully
ingenious."
"They're out of order," said Harry, pointing at the sign.
"Yes, but even so ..." said Mr Weasley, beaming at them fondly
They bought their tickets instead from a sleepy-looking guard (Harry handled the
transaction, as Mr Weasley was not very good with Muggle money) and five minutes
later they were boarding an underground train that rattled them off towards the centre of
London. Mr Weasley kept anxiously checking and re-checking the Underground Map
above the windows.
"Four more stops, Harry ... Three stops left now ... Two stops to go, Harry ..."
They got off at a station in the very heart of London, and were swept from the train in a
tide of besuited men and women carrying briefcases. Up the escalator they went, through
the ticket barrier (Mr Weasley delighted with the way the stile swallowed his ticket), and
emerged on to a broad street lined with imposing-looking buildings and already full of
traffic.
"Where are we?" said Mr Weasley blankly, and for one heart-stopping moment Harry
thought they had got off at the wrong station despite Mr Weasley's continual references
to the map; but a second later he said, "Ah yes ... this way, Harry," and led him down a
side road.

"Sorry," he said, "but I never come by train and it all looks rather different from a
Muggle perspective. As a matter of fact, I've never even used the visitors' entrance
before."
The further they walked, the smaller and less imposing the buildings became, until finally
they reached a street that contained several rather shabby-looking offices, a pub and an
overflowing skip. Harry had expected a rather more impressive location for the Ministry
of Magic.
"Here we are," said Mr Weasley brightly, pointing at an old red telephone box, which
was missing several panes of glass and stood before a heavily graffitied wall. "After you,
Harry."
He opened the telephone-box door.
Harry stepped inside, wondering what on earth this was about. Mr Weasley folded
himself in beside Harry and closed the door. It was a tight fit; Harry was jammed against
the telephone apparatus, which was hanging crookedly from the wall as though a vandal
had tried to rip it off. Mr Weasley reached past Harry for the receiver.
"Mr Weasley, I think this might be out of order, too," Harry said.
"No, no, I'm sure it's fine," said Mr Weasley, holding the receiver above his head and
peering at the dial. "Let's see ... six ..." he dialled the number, "two ... four ... and another
four ... and another two ..."
As the dial whirred smoothly back into place, a cool female voice sounded inside the
telephone box, not from the receiver in Mr Weasley's hand, but as loudly and plainly as
though an invisible woman were standing right beside them.
"Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and business."
"Er ..." said Mr Weasley, clearly uncertain whether or not he should talk into the receiver.
He compromised by holding the mouthpiece to his ear, "Arthur Weasley, Misuse of
Muggle Artefacts Office, here to escort Harry Potter, who has been asked to attend a
disciplinary hearing ..."
"Thank you," said the cool female voice. "Visitor, please take the badge and attach it to
the front of your robes."
There was a click and a rattle, and Harry saw something slide out of the metal chute
where returned coins usually appeared. He picked it up: it was a square silver badge with
Harry Potter, Disciplinary Hearing on it. He pinned it to the front of his T-shirt as the
female voice spoke again.

"Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to a search and present your wand for
registration at the security desk, which is located at the far end of the Atrium."
The floor of the telephone box shuddered. They were sinking slowly into the ground.
Harry watched apprehensively as the pavement seemed to rise up past the glass windows
of the telephone box until darkness closed over their heads. Then he could see nothing at
all; he could hear only a dull grinding noise as the telephone box made its way down
through the earth. After about a minute, though it felt much longer to Harry, a chink of
golden light illuminated his feet and, widening, rose up his body, until it hit him in the
face and he had to blink to stop his eyes watering.
"The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant day," said the woman's voice.
The door of the telephone box sprang open and Mr Weasley stepped out of it, followed
by Harry, whose mouth had fallen open.
They were standing at one end of a very long and splendid hall with a highly polished,
dark wood floor. The peacock blue ceiling was inlaid with gleaming golden symbols that
kept moving and changing like some enormous heavenly noticeboard. The walls on each
side were panelled in shiny dark wood and had many gilded fireplaces set into them.
Every few seconds a witch or wizard would emerge from one of the left-hand fireplaces
with a soft whoosh. On the right-hand side, short queues were forming before each
fireplace, waiting to depart.
Halfway down the hall was a fountain. A group of golden statues, larger than life-size,
stood in the middle of a circular pool. Tallest of them all was a noble-looking wizard with
his wand pointing straight up in the air. Grouped around him were a beautiful witch, a
centaur, a goblin and a house-elf. The last three were all looking adoringly up at the witch
and wizard. Glittering jets of water were flying from the ends of their wands, the point of
the centaur's arrow, the tip of the goblins hat and each of the house-elf's ears, so that the
tinkling hiss of falling water was added to the pops and cracks of the Apparators and the
clatter of footsteps as hundreds of witches and wizards, most of whom were wearing
glum, early-morning looks, strode towards a set of golden gates at the far end of the hall.
"This way," said Mr Weasley.
They joined the throng, wending their way between the Ministry workers, some of whom
were carrying tottering piles of parchment, others battered briefcases; still others were
reading the Daily Prophet while they walked. As they passed the fountain Harry saw
silver Sickles and bronze Knuts glinting up at him from the bottom of the pool. A small
smudged sign beside it read:
ALL PROCEEDS FROM THE FOUNTAIN OF MAGICAL BRETHREN WILL BE
GIVEN TO ST MUNGO'S HOSPITAL FOR MAGICAL MALADIES AND INJURIES.

If I'm not expelled from Hogwarts, I'll put in ten Galleons, Harry found himself thinking
desperately.
"Over here, Harry," said Mr Weasley, and they stepped out of the stream of Ministry
employees heading for the golden gates. Seated at a desk to the left, beneath a sign saying
Security, a badly-shaven wizard in peacock blue robes looked up as they approached and
put down his Daily Prophet.
"I'm escorting a visitor," said Mr Weasley, gesturing towards Harry.
"Step over here," said the wizard in a bored voice.
Harry walked closer to him and the wizard held up a long golden rod, thin and flexible as
a car aerial, and passed it up and down Harrys front and back.
"Wand," grunted the security wizard at Harry, putting down the golden instrument and
holding out his hand.
Harry produced his wand. The wizard dropped it on to a strange brass instrument, which
looked something like a set of scales with only one dish. It began to vibrate. A narrow
strip of parchment came speeding out of a slit in the base. The wizard tore this off and
read the writing on it.
"Eleven inches, phoenix-feather core, been in use four years. That correct?"
"Yes," said Harry nervously.
"I keep this," said the wizard, impaling the slip of parchment on a small brass spike. "You
get this back," he added, thrusting the wand at Harry.
"Thank you."
"Hang on ..." said the wizard slowly.
His eyes had darted from the silver visitors badge on Harry's chest to his forehead.
"Thank you, Eric," said Mr Weasley firmly, and grasping Harry by the shoulder he
steered him away from the desk and back into the stream of wizards and witches walking
through the golden gates.
Jostled slightly by the crowd, Harry followed Mr Weasley through the gates into the
smaller hall beyond, where at least twenty lifts stood behind wrought golden grilles.
Harry and Mr Weasley joined the crowd around one of them. Nearby, stood a big bearded
wizard holding a large cardboard box which was emitting rasping noises.
"All right, Arthur?" said the wizard, nodding at Mr Weasley.

"What've you got there, Bob?" asked Mr Weasley, looking at the box.
"We're not sure," said the wizard seriously. 'We thought it was a bog-standard chicken
until it started breathing fire. Looks like a serious breach of the Ban on Experimental
Breeding to me."
With a great jangling and clattering a lift descended in front of them; the golden grille
slid back and Harry and Mr Weasley stepped into the lift with the rest of the crowd and
Harry found himself jammed against the back wall. Several witches and wizards were
looking at him curiously; he stared at his feet to avoid catching anyone's eye, flattening
his fringe as he did so. The grilles slid shut with a crash and the lift ascended slowly,
chains rattling, while the same cool female voice Harry had heard in the telephone box
rang out again.
"Level Seven, Department of Magical Games and Sports, incorporating the British and
Irish Quidditch League Headquarters, Official Gobstones Club and Ludicrous Patents
Office."
The lift doors opened. Harry glimpsed an untidy-looking corridor, with various posters of
Quidditch teams tacked lopsidedly on the walls. One of the wizards in the lift, who was
carrying an armful of broomsticks, extricated himself with difficulty and disappeared
down the corridor. The doors closed, the lift juddered upwards again and the woman's
voice announced:
"Level Six, Department of Magical Transportation, incorporating the Floo Network
Authority, Broom Regulatory Control, Portkey Office and Apparation Test Centre."
Once again the lift doors opened and four or five witches and wizards got out; at the same
time, several paper aeroplanes swooped into the lift. Harry stared up at them as they
flapped idly around above his head; they were a pale violet colour and he could see
Ministry of Magic stamped along the edge of their wings.
"Just inter-departmental memos," Mr Weasley muttered to him. "We used to use owls,
but the mess was unbelievable ... droppings all over the desks ..."
As they clattered upwards again the memos flapped around ihe lamp swaying from the
lift's ceiling.
"Level Five, Department of International Magical Co-operation, incorporating the
International Magical Trading Standards Body, the International Magical Office of Law
and the International Confederation of Wizards, British Seats."
When the doors opened, two of the memos zoomed out with a few more of the witches
and wizards, but several more memos zoomed in, so that the light from the lamp flickered
and flashed overhead as they darted around it.

"Level Four, Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures,
incorporating Beast, Being and Spirit Divisions, Goblin Liaison Office and Pest Advisory
Bureau."
"S'cuse," said the wizard carrying the fire-breathing chicken and he left the lift pursued
by a little flock of memos. The doors clanged shut yet again.
"Level Three, Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes, including the
Accidental Magic Reversal Squad, Obliviator Headquarters and Muggle-Worthy Excuse
Committee."
Everybody left the lift on this floor except Mr Weasley, Harry and a witch who was
reading an extremely long piece of parchment that was trailing on the floor. The
remaining memos continued to soar around the lamp as the lift juddered upwards again,
then the doors opened and the voice made its announcement.
"Level Two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, including the Improper Use of
Magic Office, Auror Headquarters and Wizengamot Administration Services."
"This is us, Harry," said Mr Weasley, and they followed the witch out of the lift into a
corridor lined with doors. "My office is on the other side of the floor."
"Mr Weasley" said Harry, as they passed a window through which sunlight was
streaming, "aren't we still underground?"
"Yes, we are," said Mr Weasley. "Those are enchanted windows. Magical Maintenance
decide what weather we'll get every day. We had two months of hurricanes last time they
were angling for a pay rise ... Just round here, Harry."
They turned a corner, walked through a pair of heavy oak doors and emerged in a
cluttered open area divided into cubicles, which was buzzing with talk and laughter.
Memos were zooming in and out of cubicles like miniature rockets. A lopsided sign on
the nearest cubicle read: Auror Headquarters.
Harry looked surreptitiously through the doorways as they passed. The Aurors had
covered their cubicle walls with everything from pictures of wanted wizards and
photographs of their families, to posters of their favourite Quidditch teams and articles
from the Daily Prophet. A scarlet-robed man with a ponytail longer than Bill's was sitting
with his boots up on his desk, dictating a report to his quill. A little further along, a witch
with a patch over one eye was talking over the top of her cubicle wall to Kingsley
Shacklebolt.
"Morning, Weasley," said Kingsley carelessly, as they drew nearer. "I've been wanting a
word with you, have you got a second?"
"Yes, if it really is a second," said Mr Weasley, "I'm in rather a hurry."

They were talking as though they hardly knew each other and when Harry opened his
mouth to say hello to Kingsley, Mr Weasley stood on his foot. They followed Kingsley
along the row and into the very last cubicle.
Harry received a slight shock; blinking down at him from every direction was Sirius's
face. Newspaper cuttings and old photographs - even the one of Sirius being best man at
the Potters' wedding -papered the walls. The only Sirius-free space was a map of the
world in which little red pins were glowing like jewels.
"Here," said Kingsley brusquely to Mr Weasley, shoving a sheaf of parchment into his
hand. "I need as much information as possible on flying Muggle vehicles sighted in the
last twelve months. We've received information that Black might still be using his old
motorcycle."
Kingsley tipped Harry an enormous wink and added, in a whisper, "Give him the
magazine, he might find it interesting." Then he said in normal tones, "And don't take too
long, Weasley, the delay on that firelegs report held our investigation up for a month."
"If you had read my report you would know that the term is firearms," said Mr Weasley
coolly. "And I'm afraid you'll have to wait for information on motorcycles; we're
extremely busy at the moment." He dropped his voice and said, "If you can get away
before seven, Molly's making meatballs."
He beckoned to Harry and led him out of Kingsley's cubicle, through a second set of oak
doors, into another passage, turned left, marched along another corridor, turned right into
a dimly lit and distinctly shabby corridor, and finally reached a dead end, where a door on
the left stood ajar, revealing a broom cupboard, and a door on the right bore a tarnished
brass plaque reading: Misuse of Muggle Artefacts.
Mr Weasley's dingy office seemed to be slightly smaller than the broom cupboard. Two
desks had been crammed inside it and there was barely space to move around them
because of all the overflowing filing cabinets lining the walls, on top of which were
tottering piles of files. The little wall space available bore witness to Mr Weasley's
obsessions: several posters of cars, including one of a dismantled engine; two illustrations
of postboxes he seemed to have cut out of Muggle children's books; and a diagram
showing how to wire a plug.
Sitting on top of Mr Weasley's overflowing in-tray was an old toaster that was
hiccoughing in a disconsolate way and a pair of empty leather gloves that were twiddling
their thumbs. A photograph of the Weasley family stood beside the in-tray. Harry noticed
that Percy appeared to have walked out of it.
"We haven't got a window," said Mr Weasley apologetically, taking off his bomber jacket
and placing it on the back of his chair. "We've asked, but they don't seem to think we
need one. Have a seat, Harry, doesn't look as if Perkins is in yet."

Harry squeezed himself into the chair behind Perkins's desk while Mr Weasley riffled
through the sheaf of parchment Kingsley Shacklebolt had given him.
"Ah," he said, grinning, as he extracted a copy of a magazine entitled The Quibbler from
its midst, "yes ..." He flicked through it. "Yes, he's right, I'm sure Sirus will find that very
amusing - oh dear, what's this now?"
A memo had just zoomed in through the open door and fluttered to rest on top of the
hiccoughing toaster. Mr Weasley unfolded it and read it aloud.
"'Third regurgitating public toilet reported in Bethnal Green, kindly investigate
immediately.' This is getting ridiculous ..."
"A regurgitating toilet?"
"Anti-Muggle pranksters," said Mr Weasley, frowning. "We had two last week, one in
Wimbledon, one in Elephant and Castle. Muggles are pulling the flush and instead of
everything disappearing - well, you can imagine. The poor things keep calling in those pumbles, I think they're called - you know, the ones who mend pipes and things."
"Plumbers?"
"Exactly, yes, but of course they're flummoxed. I only hope we can catch whoever's
doing it."
"Will it be Aurors who catch them?"
"Oh no, this is too trivial for Aurors, it'll be the ordinary Magical Law Enforcement
Patrol - ah, Harry, this is Perkins."
A stooped, timid-looking old wizard with fluffy white hair had just entered the room,
panting.
"Oh, Arthur!" he said desperately, without looking at Harry. "Thank goodness, I didn't
know what to do for the best, whether to wait here for you or not. I've just sent an owl to
your home but you've obviously missed it - an urgent message came ten minutes ago -"
"I know about the regurgitating toilet," said Mr Weasley.
"No, no, it's not the toilet, it's the Potter boy's hearing - they've changed the time and
venue - it starts at eight o'clock now and it's down in old Courtroom Ten -"
"Down in old - but they told me - Merlin's beard!"
Mr Weasley looked at his watch, let out a yelp and leapt from his chair.

"Quick, Harry, we should have been there five minutes ago!"
Perkins flattened himself against the filing cabinets as Mr Weasley left the office at a run,
Harry close on his heels.
"Why have they changed the time?" Harry said breathlessly, as they hurtled past the
Auror cubicles; people poked out their heads and stared as they streaked past. Harry felt
as though he'd left all his insides back at Perkins's desk.
"I've no idea, but thank goodness we got here so early, if you'd missed it, it would have
been catastrophic!"
Mr Weasley skidded to a halt beside the lifts and jabbed impatiently at the 'down' button.
"Come ON!"
The lift clattered into view and they hurried inside. Every time it stopped Mr Weasley
cursed furiously and pummelled the number nine button.
Those courtrooms haven't been used in years," said Mr Weasley angrily. "I can't think
why they're doing it down there - unless -but no -"
A plump witch carrying a smoking goblet entered the lift at that moment, and Mr
Weasley did not elaborate.
"The Atrium," said the cool female voice and the golden grilles slid open, showing Harry
a distant glimpse of the golden statues in the fountain. The plump witch got out and a
sallow-skinned wizard with a very mournful face got in.
"Morning, Arthur," he said in a sepulchral voice as the lift began to descend. "Don't often
see you down here."
"Urgent business, Bode," said Mr Weasley, who was bouncing on the balls of his feet and
throwing anxious looks over at Harry.
"Ah, yes," said Bode, surveying Harry unblinkingly. "Of course."
Harry barely had emotion to spare for Bode, but his unfaltering gaze did not make him
feel any more comfortable.
"Department of Mysteries," said the cool female voice, and left it at that.
"Quick, Harry," said Mr Weasley as the lift doors rattled open, and they sped up a
corridor that was quite different from those above. The walls were bare; there were no
windows and no doors apart from a plain black one set at the very end of the corridor.

Harry expected them to go through it, but instead Mr Weasley seized him by the arm and
dragged him to the left, where there was an opening leading to a flight of steps.
"Down here, down here," panted Mr Weasley, taking two steps at a time. The lift doesn't
even come down this far ... why they're doing it down there I ..."
They reached the bottom of the steps and ran along yet another corridor, which bore a
great resemblance to the one that led to Snape's dungeon at Hogwarts, with rough stone
walls and torches in brackets. The doors they passed here were heavy wooden ones with
iron bolts and keyholes.
"Courtroom ... Ten ... I think ... we're nearly ... yes."
Mr Weasley stumbled to a halt outside a grimy dark door with an immense iron lock and
slumped against the wall, clutching at a stitch in his chest.
"Go on," he panted, pointing his thumb at the door. "Get in there."
"Aren't - aren't you coming with -?"
"No, no, I'm not allowed. Good luck!"
Harry's heart was beating a violent tattoo against his Adam's apple. He swallowed hard,
turned the heavy iron door handle and stepped inside the courtroom.
— CHAPTER EIGHT — 
The Hearing
Harry gasped; he could not help himself. The large dungeon he had entered was 
horribly familiar. He had not only seen it before, he had been here before. This 
was the place he had visited inside Dumbledoreʹs Pensieve, the place where he 
had watched the Lestranges sentenced to life imprisonment in Azkaban. 
The walls were made of dark stone, dimly lit by torches. Empty benches rose on 
either side of him, but ahead, in the highest benches of all, were many shadowy 
figures. They had been talking in low voices, but as the heavy door swung closed 
behind Harry an ominous silence fell. 
A cold male voice rang across the courtroom. 
ʹYouʹre late.ʹ 
ʹSorry,ʹ said Harry nervously ʹI — I didnʹt know the time had been changed.ʹ 

That is not the Wizengamotʹs fault,ʹ said the voice. ʹAn owl was sent to you this 
morning. Take your seat.ʹ 
Harry dropped his gaze to the chair in the centre of the room, the arms of which 
were covered in chains. He had seen those chains spring to life and bind 
whoever sat between them. His footsteps echoed loudly as he walked across the 
stone floor. When he sat gingerly on the edge of the chair the chains clinked 
threateningly, but did not bind him. Feeling rather sick, he looked up at the 
people seated at the bench above. 
There were about fifty of them, all, as far as he could see, wearing plum‐coloured 
robes with an elaborately worked silver ʹW on the left‐hand side of the chest and 
all staring down their noses at him, some with very austere expressions, others 
looks of frank curiosity. 
THE HE A RING 
In the very middle of the front row sat Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic. 
Fudge was a portly man who often sported a lime‐green bowler hat, though 
today he had dispensed with it; he had dispensed, too, with the indulgent smile 
he had once worn when he spoke to Harry. A broad, square‐jawed witch with 
very short grey hair sat on Fudgeʹs left; she wore a monocle and looked 
forbidding. On Fudgeʹs right was another witch, but she was sitting so far back 
on the bench that her face was in shadow. 
ʹVery well,ʹ said Fudge. The accused being present ‐ finally ‐let us begin. Are you 
ready?ʹ he called down the row. 
ʹYes, sir,ʹ said an eager voice Harry knew. Ronʹs brother Percy was sitting at the 
very end of the front bench. Harry looked at Percy, expecting some sign of 
recognition from him, but none came. Percyʹs eyes, behind his horn‐rimmed 
glasses, were fixed on his parchment, a quill poised in his hand. 
ʹDisciplinary hearing of the twelfth of August,ʹ said Fudge in a ringing voice, and 
Percy began taking notes at once, ʹinto offences committed under the Decree for 
the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery and the International Statute of 
Secrecy by Harry James Potter, resident at number four, Privet Drive, Little 
Whinging, Surrey. 
ʹInterrogators: Cornelius Oswald Fudge, Minister for Magic; Amelia Susan 
Bones, Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement; Dolores Jane 

Umbridge, Senior Undersecretary to the Minister. Court Scribe, Percy Ignatius 
Weasley ‐ʹ 
ʹWitness for the defence, Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumble‐dore,ʹ said a quiet 
voice from behind Harry, who turned his head so fast he cricked his neck. 
Dumbledore was striding serenely across the room wearing long midnight‐blue 
robes and a perfectly calm expression. His long silver beard and hair gleamed in 
the torchlight as he drew level with Harry and looked up at Fudge through the 
half‐moon spectacles that rested halfway down his very crooked nose. 
The members of the Wizengamot were muttering. All eyes were now on 
Dumbledore. Some looked annoyed, others slightly frightened; two elderly 
witches in the back row, however, raised their hands and waved in welcome. 
A powerful emotion had risen in Harryʹs chest at the sight of Dumbledore, a 
fortified, hopeful feeling rather like that which phoenix song gave him. He 
wanted to catch Dumbledoreʹs eye, but Dumbledore was not looking his way; he 
was continuing to look up at the obviously flustered Fudge. 
ʹAh,ʹ said Fudge, who looked thoroughly disconcerted. ʹDumbledore. Yes. You ‐ 
er ‐ got our ‐ er ‐ message that the time and ‐er ‐ place of the hearing had been 
changed, then?ʹ 
ʹI must have missed it,ʹ said Dumbledore cheerfully. ʹHowever, due to a lucky 
mistake I arrived at the Ministry three hours early, so no harm done.ʹ 
ʹYes ‐ well ‐ I suppose weʹll need another chair ‐ I ‐ Weasley, could you ‐?ʹ 
ʹNot to worry, not to worry,ʹ said Dumbledore pleasantly; he took out his wand, 
gave it a little flick, and a squashy chintz armchair appeared out of nowhere next 
to Harry. Dumbledore sat down, put the tips of his long fingers together and 
surveyed Fudge over them with an expression of polite interest. The 
Wizengamot was still muttering and fidgeting restlessly; only when Fudge spoke 
again did they settle down. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Fudge again, shuffling his notes. ʹWell, then. So. The charges. Yes.ʹ 
He extricated a piece of parchment from the pile before him, took a deep breath, 
and read out, The charges against the accused are as follows: 

That he did knowingly, deliberately and in full awareness of the illegality of his 
actions, having received a previous written warning from the Ministry of Magic 
on a similar charge, produce a Patronus Charm in a Muggle‐inhabited area, in 
the presence of a Muggle, on the second of August at twenty‐three minutes past 
nine, which constitutes an offence under Paragraph C of the Decree for the 
Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery, 1875, and also under Section 13 of 
the International Confederation of Warlocksʹ Statute of Secrecy. 
ʹYou are Harry James Potter, of number four, Privet Drive, Little Whinging, 
Surrey?ʹ Fudge said, glaring at Harry over the top of his parchment. 
ʹYes,ʹ Harry said. 
ʹYou received an official warning from the Ministry for using illegal magic three 
years ago, did you not?ʹ 
ʹYes, but ‐ʹ 
ʹAnd yet you conjured a Patronus on the night of the second of August?ʹ said 
Fudge. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry, ʹbut ‐ʹ 
ʹKnowing that you are not permitted to use magic outside school while you are 
under the age of seventeen?ʹ 
ʹYes, but ‐ʹ 
ʹKnowing that you were in an area full of Muggles?ʹ 
ʹYes, but ‐ʹ 
ʹFully aware that you were in close proximity to a Muggle at the time?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry angrily, ʹbut 1 only used it because we were ‐ʹ 
The witch with the monocle cut across him in a booming voice. 
ʹYou produced a fully‐fledged Patronus?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry, ʹbecause ‐ʹ 

ʹA corporeal Patronus?ʹ 
ʹA ‐ what?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYour Patronus had a clearly defined form? I mean to say, it was more than 
vapour or smoke?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry, feeling both impatient and slightly desperate, ʹitʹs a stag, itʹs 
always a stag.ʹ 
ʹAlways?ʹ boomed Madam Bones. ʹYou have produced a Patronus before now?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry, ʹIʹve been doing it for over a year.ʹ 
ʹAnd you are fifteen years old?ʹ 
ʹYes, and ‐ʹ 
ʹYou learned this at school?ʹ 
ʹYes, Professor Lupin taught me in my third year, because of the ‐ʹ 
ʹImpressive,ʹ said Madam Bones, staring down at him, ʹa true Patronus at his 
age… very impressive indeed.ʹ 
Some of the wizards and witches around her were muttering again; a few 
nodded, but others were frowning and shaking their heads. 
ʹItʹs not a question of how impressive the magic was,ʹ said Fudge in a testy voice, 
ʹin fact, the more impressive the worse it is, I would have thought, given that the 
boy did it in plain view of a Muggle!ʹ 
Those who had been frowning now murmured in agreement, but it was the sight 
of Percyʹs sanctimonious little nod that goaded Harry into speech. 
ʹI did it because of the Dementors!ʹ he said loudly, before anyone could interrupt 
him again. 
He had expected more muttering, but the silence that fell seemed to be somehow 
denser than before. 

ʹDementors?ʹ said Madam Bones after a moment, her thick eyebrows rising until 
her monocle looked in danger of falling out. ʹWhat do you mean, boy?ʹ 
ʹI mean there were two Dementors down that alleyway and they went for me 
and my cousin!ʹ 
ʹAh,ʹ said Fudge again, smirking unpleasantly as he looked around at the 
Wizengamot, as though inviting them to share the joke. ʹYes. Yes, I thought weʹd 
be hearing something like this.ʹ 
ʹDementors in Little Whinging?ʹ Madam Bones said, in a tone of great surprise. ʹI 
donʹt understand ‐ʹ 
ʹDonʹt you, Amelia?ʹ said Fudge, still smirking. ʹLet me explain. Heʹs been 
thinking it through and decided Dementors would make a very nice little cover 
story, very nice indeed. Muggles canʹt see Dementors, can they, boy? Highly 
convenient, highly convenient… so itʹs just your word and no witnesses…ʹ 
ʹIʹm not lying!ʹ said Harry loudly, over another outbreak of muttering from the 
court. There were two of them, coming from opposite ends of the alley, 
everything went dark and cold and my cousin felt them and ran for it ‐ʹ 
ʹEnough, enough!ʹ said Fudge, with a very supercilious look on his face. ʹIʹm 
sorry to interrupt what Iʹm sure would have been a very well‐rehearsed story ‐ʹ 
Dumbledore cleared his throat. The Wizengamot fell silent again. 
ʹWe do, in fact, have a witness to the presence of Dementors in that alleyway,ʹ he 
said, ʹother than Dudley Dursley, I mean.ʹ 
Fudgeʹs plump face seemed to slacken, as though somebody had let air out of it. 
He stared down at Dumbledore for a moment or two, then, with the appearance 
of a man pulling himself back together, said, ʹWe havenʹt got time to listen to 
more tarradiddles, Iʹm afraid, Dumbledore. I want this dealt with quickly ‐ʹ 
ʹI may be wrong,ʹ said Dumbledore pleasantly, ʹbut I am sure that under the 
Wizengamot Charter of Rights, the accused has the right to present witnesses for 
his or her case? Isnʹt that the policy of the Department of Magical Law 
Enforcement, Madam Bones?ʹ he continued, addressing the witch in the monocle. 
ʹTrue,ʹ said Madam Bones. ʹPerfectly true.ʹ 

ʹOh, very well, very well,ʹ snapped Fudge. ʹWhere is this person?ʹ 
ʹI brought her with me,ʹ said Dumbledore. ʹSheʹs just outside the door. Should 1 ‐
?ʹ 
ʹNo — Weasley, you go,ʹ Fudge barked at Percy, who got up at once, ran down 
the stone steps from the judgeʹs balcony and hurried past Dumbledore and 
Harry without glancing at them. 
A moment later, Percy returned, followed by Mrs Figg. She looked scared and 
more batty than ever. Harry wished she had thought to change out of her carpet 
slippers. 
Dumbledore stood up and gave Mrs Figg his chair, conjuring a second one for 
himself. 
ʹFull name?ʹ said Fudge loudly, when Mrs Figg had perched herself nervously on 
the very edge of her seal. 
ʹArabella Doreen Figg,ʹ said Mrs Figg in her quavery voice. 
ʹAnd who exactly are you?ʹ said Fudge, in a bored and lofty voice. 
ʹIʹm a resident of Little Whinging, close to where Harry Potter lives,ʹ said Mrs 
Figg. 
ʹWe have no record of any witch or wizard living in Little Whinging, other than 
Harry Potter,ʹ said Madam Bones at once. That situation has always been closely 
monitored, given… given past events.ʹ 
ʹIʹm a Squib,ʹ said Mrs Figg. ʹSo you wouldnʹt have me registered, would you?ʹ 
ʹA Squib, eh?ʹ said Fudge, eyeing her closely. ʹWeʹll be checking that. Youʹll leave 
details of your parentage with my assistant Weasley. Incidentally, can Squibs see 
Dementors?ʹ he added, looking left and right along the bench. 
ʹYes, we can!ʹ said Mrs Figg indignantly. 
Fudge looked back down at her, his eyebrows raised. ʹVery well,ʹ he said aloofly. 
ʹWhat is your story?ʹ 

ʹI had gone out to buy cat food from the corner shop at the end of Wisteria Walk, 
around about nine oʹclock, on the evening of the second of August,ʹ gabbled Mrs 
Figg at once, as though she had learned what she was saying by heart, ʹwhen I 
heard a disturbance down the alleyway between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria 
Walk. On approaching the mouth of the alleyway I saw Dementors running ‐ʹ 
ʹRunning?ʹ said Madam Bones sharply. ʹDementors donʹt run, they glide.ʹ 
Thatʹs what 1 meant to say,ʹ said Mrs Figg quickly, patches of pink appearing in 
her withered cheeks. ʹGliding along the alley towards what looked like two 
boys.ʹ 
ʹWhat did they look like?ʹ said Madam Bones, narrowing her eyes so that the 
edge of the monocle disappeared into her flesh. 
ʹWell, one was very large and the other one rather skinny ‐ʹ 
ʹNo, no,ʹ said Madam Bones impatiently. ʹThe Dementors… describe them.ʹ 
ʹOh,1 said Mrs Figg, the pink flush creeping up her neck now. They were big. Big 
and wearing cloaks.ʹ 
Harry felt a horrible sinking in the pit of his stomach. Whatever Mrs Figg might 
say, it sounded to him as though the most she had ever seen was a picture of a 
Dementor, and a picture could never convey the truth of what these beings were 
like: the eerie way they moved, hovering inches over the ground; or the rotting 
smell of them; or that terrible rattling noise they made as they sucked on the 
surrounding air… 
In the second row, a dumpy wizard with a large black moustache leaned close to 
whisper in the ear of his neighbour, a frizzy‐haired witch. She smirked and 
nodded. 
ʹBig and wearing cloaks,ʹ repeated Madam Bones coolly, while Fudge snorted 
derisively. ʹI see. Anything else?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Mrs Figg. ʹI felt them. Everything went cold, and this was a very warm 
summerʹs night, mark you. And I felt… as though all happiness had gone from 
the world… and I remembered… dreadful things…ʹ 
Her voice shook and died. 

Madam Bonesʹs eyes widened slightly. Harry could see red marks under her 
eyebrow where the monocle had dug into it. 
ʹWhat did the Dementors do?ʹ she asked, and Harry felt a rush of hope. 
They went for the boys,ʹ said Mrs Figg, her voice stronger and more confident 
now, the pink flush ebbing away from her face. ʹOne of them had fallen. The 
other was backing away, trying to repel the Dementor. That was Harry. He tried 
twice and produced only silver vapour. On the third attempt, he produced a 
Patronus, which charged down the first Dementor and then, with his 
encouragement, chased the second one away from his cousin. And that that is 
what happened,ʹ Mrs Figg finished, somewhat lamely. 
Madam Bones looked down at Mrs Figg in silence. Fudge was not looking at her 
at all, but fidgeting with his papers. Finally, he raised his eyes and said, rather 
aggressively, Thatʹs what you saw, is it?ʹ 
That is what happened,ʹ Mrs Figg repeated. 
ʹVery well,ʹ said Fudge. ʹYou may go.ʹ 
Mrs Figg cast a frightened look from Fudge to Dumbledore, then got up and 
shuffled otf towards the door. Harry heard it thud shut behind her. 
ʹNot a very convincing witness,ʹ said Fudge loftily. 
ʹOh, I donʹt know,ʹ said Madam Bones, in her booming voice. ʹShe certainly 
described the effects of a Dementor attack very accurately. And I canʹt imagine 
why she would say they were there if they werenʹt.ʹ 
ʹBut Dementors wandering into a Muggle suburb and just happening to come 
across a wizard?ʹ snorted Fudge. The odds on that must be very, very long. Even 
Bagman wouldnʹt have bet ‐ʹ 
ʹOh, 1 donʹt think any of us believe the Dementors were there by coincidence,ʹ 
said Dumbledore lightly. 
The witch sitting to the right of Fudge, with her face in shadow, moved slightly 
but everyone else was quite still and silent. 
And what is that supposed to mean?ʹ Fudge asked icily. 

ʹIt means that I think they were ordered there,ʹ said Dumbledore. 
ʹI think we might have a record of it if someone had ordered a pair of Dementors 
to go strolling through Little Whanging!ʹ barked Fudge. 
ʹNot if the Dementors are taking orders from someone other than the Ministry of 
Magic these days,ʹ said Dumbledore calmly. ʹI have already given you my views 
on this matter, Cornelius.ʹ 
ʹYes, you have,ʹ said Fudge forcefully, ʹand I have no reason to believe that your 
views are anything other than bilge, Dumbledore. The Dementors remain in 
place in Azkaban and are doing everything we ask them to.ʹ 
Then,ʹ said Dumbledore, quietly but clearly, ʹwe must ask ourselves why 
somebody within the Ministry ordered a pair of Dementors into that alleyway on 
the second of August.ʹ 
In the complete silence that greeted these words, the witch to the right of Fudge 
leaned forwards so that Harry saw her for the first time. 
He thought she looked just like a large, pale toad. She was rather squat with a 
broad, flabby face, as little neck as Uncle Vernon and a very wide, slack mouth. 
Her eyes were large, round and slightly bulging. Even the little black velvet bow 
perched on top of her short curly hair put him in mind of a large fly she was 
about to catch on a long sticky tongue. 
The Chair recognises Dolores Jane Umbridge, Senior Undersecretary to the 
Minister,ʹ said Fudge. 
The witch spoke in a fluttery, girlish, high‐pitched voice that took Harry aback; 
he had been expecting a croak. 
ʹIʹm sure I must have misunderstood you, Professor Dumbledore,ʹ she said, with 
a simper that left her big, round eyes as cold as ever. ʹSo silly of me. But it 
sounded for a teensy moment as though you were suggesting that the Ministry 
of Magic had ordered an attack on this boy!ʹ 
She gave a silvery laugh that made the hairs on the back of Harryʹs neck stand 
up. A few other members of the Wizengamot laughed with her. It could not have 
been plainer that not one of them was really amused. 

ʹIf it is true that the Dementors are taking orders only from the Ministry of 
Magic, and it is also true that two Dementors attacked Harry and his cousin a 
week ago, then it follows logically that somebody at the Ministry might have 
ordered the attacks,ʹ said Dumbledore politely. ʹOf course, these particular 
Dementors may have been outside Ministry control ‐ʹ 
ʹThere are no Dementors outside Ministry control!ʹ snapped Fudge, who had 
turned brick red. 
Dumbledore inclined his head in a little bow. 
Then undoubtedly the Ministry will be making a full inquiry into why two 
Dementors were so very far from Azkaban and why they attacked without 
authorisation.ʹ 
ʹIt is not for you to decide what the Ministry of Magic does or does not do, 
Dumbledore!ʹ snapped Fudge, now a shade of magenta of which Uncle Vernon 
would have been proud. 
ʹOf course it isnʹt,ʹ said Dumbledore mildly. ʹI was merely expressing my 
confidence that this matter will not go uninvesti‐gated.ʹ 
He glanced at Madam Bones, who readjusted her monocle and stared back at 
him, frowning slightly. 
ʹI would remind everybody that the behaviour of these Dementors, if indeed they 
are not figments of this boyʹs imagination, is not the subject of this hearing!ʹ said 
Fudge. ʹWe are here to examine Harry Potterʹs offences under the Decree for the 
Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery!ʹ 
ʹOf course we are,ʹ said Dumbledore, ʹbut the presence of Dementors in that 
alleyway is highly relevant. Clause Seven of the Decree states that magic may be 
used before Muggles in exceptional circumstances, and as those exceptional 
circumstances include situations which threaten the life of the wizard or witch 
him‐ or herself, or any witches, wizards or Muggles present at the time of the ‐ʹ 
ʹWe are familiar with Clause Seven, thank you very much!ʹ snarled Fudge. 
ʹOf course you are,ʹ said Dumbledore courteously. Then we are in agreement that 
Harrys use of the Patronus Charm in these circumstances falls precisely into the 
category of exceptional circumstances the clause describes?ʹ 

ʹIf there were Dementors, which I doubt.ʹ 
ʹYou have heard it from an eyewitness,ʹ Dumbledore interrupted. 
ʹIf you still doubt her truthfulness, call her back, question her again. 1 am sure 
she would not object.ʹ 
ʹI ‐ that ‐ not ‐ʹ blustered Fudge, fiddling with the papers before him. ʹItʹs ‐ I want 
this over with today, Dumbledore!ʹ 
ʹBut naturally, you would not care how many times you heard from a witness, if 
the alternative was a serious miscarriage of justice,ʹ said Dumbledore. 
ʹSerious miscarriage, my hat!ʹ said Fudge at the top of his voice. ʹHave you ever 
bothered to tot up the number of cock‐and‐bull stories this boy has come out 
with, Dumbledore, while trying to cover up his flagrant misuse of magic out of 
school? I suppose youʹve forgotten the Hover Charm he used three years ago ‐ʹ 
That wasnʹt me, it was a house‐elf!ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYOU SEE?ʹ roared Fudge, gesturing flamboyantly in Harryʹs direction. ʹA house‐
elf! In a Muggle house! I ask you.ʹ 
The house‐elfin question is currently in the employ of Hogwarts School,ʹ said 
Dumbledore. ʹI can summon him here in an instant to give evidence if you wish.ʺ 
ʹI ‐ not ‐ I havenʹt got time to listen to house‐elves! Anyway, thatʹs not the only ‐ 
he blew up his aunt, for Godʹs sake!ʹ Fudge shouted, banging his fist on the 
judgeʹs bench and upsetting a bottle of ink. 
ʹAnd you very kindly did not press charges on that occasion, accepting, I 
presume, that even the best wizards cannot always control their emotions,ʹ said 
Dumbledore calmly, as Fudge attempted to scrub the ink off his notes. 
ʹAnd I havenʹt even started on what he gets up to at school.ʹ 
ʹBut, as the Ministry has no authority to punish Hogwarts students for 
misdemeanours at school, Harryʹs behaviour there is not relevant to this hearing,ʹ 
said Dumbledore, as politely as ever, but now with a suggestion of coolness 
behind his words. 

ʹOho!ʹ said Fudge. ʹNot our business what he does at school, eh? You think so?ʹ 
The Ministry does not have the power to expel Hogwarts students, Cornelius, as 
I reminded you on the night of the second of August,ʹ said Dumbledore. ʹNor 
does it have the right to confiscate wands until charges have been successfully 
proven; again, as 
I reminded you on the night of the second of August. In your admirable haste to 
ensure that the law is upheld, you appear, inadvertently I am sure, to have 
overlooked a few laws yourself.ʹ 
ʹLaws can be changed,ʹ said Fudge savagely. 
ʹOf course they can,ʹ said Dumbledore, inclining his head. ʹAnd vou certainly 
seem to be making many changes, Cornelius. Why, in the few short weeks since I 
was asked to leave the Wizengamot, it has already become the practice to hold a 
full criminal trial to deal with a simple matter of underage magic!ʹ 
A few of the wizards above them shifted uncomfortably in their seats. Fudge 
turned a slightly deeper shade of puce. The toadlike witch on his right, however, 
merely gazed at Dumbledore, her face quite expressionless. 
ʹAs far as I am aware,ʹ Dumbledore continued, ʹthere is no law yet in place that 
says this courtʹs job is to punish Harry for every bit of magic he has ever 
performed. He has been charged with a specific offence and he has presented his 
defence. All he and I can do now is to await your verdict.ʹ 
Dumbledore put his fingertips together again and said no more. Fudge glared at 
him, evidently incensed. Harry glanced sideways at Dumbledore, seeking 
reassurance; he was not at all sure that Dumbledore was right in telling the 
Wizengamot, in effect, that it was about time they made a decision. Again, 
however, Dumbledore seemed oblivious to Harryʹs attempt to catch his eye. He 
continued to look up at the benches where the entire Wizengamot had fallen into 
urgent, whispered conversations. 
Harry looked at his feet. His heart, which seemed to have swollen to an 
unnatural size, was thumping loudly under his ribs. He had expected the hearing 
to last longer than this. He was not at all sure that he had made a good 
impression. He had not really said very much. He ought to have explained more 
fully about the Dementors, about how he had fallen over, about how both he and 
Dudley had nearly been kissed… 

Twice he looked up at Fudge and opened his mouth to speak, but his swollen 
heart was now constricting his air passages and both times he merely took a deep 
breath and looked back down at his shoes. 
— CHAPTER NINE 
The Woes of Mrs Weasky
Dumbledoreʹs abrupt departure took Harry completely by surprise. He remained 
sitting where he was in the chained chair, struggling with his feelings of shock 
and relief. The Wizengamot were all getting to their feet, talking, gathering up 
their papers and packing them away. Harry stood up. Nobody seemed to be 
paying him the slightest bit of attention, except the toadlike witch on Fudgeʹs 
right, who was now gazing down at him instead of at Dumbledore. Ignoring her, 
he tried to catch Fudgeʹs eye, or Madam Bonesʹs, wanting to ask whether he was 
free to go, but Fudge seemed quite determined not to notice Harry, and Madam 
Bones was busy with her briefcase, so he took a few tentative steps towards the 
exit and, when nobody called him back, broke into a very fast walk. 
He took the last few steps at a run, wrenched open the door and almost collided 
with Mr Weasley, who was standing right outside, looking pale and 
apprehensive. 
ʹDumbledore didnʹt say ‐ʹ 
ʹCleared,ʹ Harry said, pulling the door closed behind him, ʹof all charges!ʹ 
Beaming, Mr Weasley seized Harry by the shoulders. 
ʹHarry, thatʹs wonderful! Well, of course, they couldnʹt have found you guilty, 
not on the evidence, but even so, 1 canʹt pretend I wasnʹt ‐ʹ 
But Mr Weasley broke off, because the courtroom door had just opened again. 
The Wizengamot were filing out. 
ʹMerlinʹs beard!ʹ exclaimed Mr Weasley wonderingly, pulling Harry aside to let 
them all pass. ʹYou were tried by the full court?ʹ 
ʹI think so,ʹ said Harry quietly. 

One or two of the wizards nodded to Harry as they passed and a few, including 
Madam Bones, said, ʹMorning, Arthur,ʹ to Mr Weasley, but most averted their 
eyes. Cornelius Fudge and the toadlike witch were almost the last to leave the 
dungeon. Fudge acted as though Mr Weasley and Harry were part of the wall, 
but again, the witch looked almost appraisingly at Harry as she passed. Last of 
all to pass was Percy. Like Fudge, he completely ignored his father and Harry; he 
marched past clutching a large roll of parchment and a handful of spare quills, 
his back rigid and his nose in the air. The lines around Mr Weasleys mouth 
tightened slightly, but other than this he gave no sign that he had seen his third 
son. 
ʹIʹm going to take you straight back so you can tell the others the good news,ʹ he 
said, beckoning Harry forwards as Percyʹs heels disappeared up the steps to 
Level Nine. Til drop you off on the way to that toilet in Bethnal Green. Come 
on…ʺ 
ʹSo, what will you have to do about the toilet?ʹ Harry asked, grinning. Everything 
suddenly seemed five times funnier than usual. It was starting to sink in: he was 
cleared, he was going back to Hogwarts. 
ʹOh, its a simple enough anti‐jinx,ʹ said Mr Weasley as they mounted the stairs, 
ʹbut itʹs not so much having to repair the damage, its more the attitude behind 
the vandalism, Harry. Muggle‐baiting might strike some wizards as funny, but 
itʹs an expression of something much deeper and nastier, and I for one ‐ʹ 
Mr Weasley broke off in mid‐sentence. They had just reached the ninth‐level 
corridor and Cornelius Fudge was standing a few feet away from them, talking 
quietly to a tall man with sleek blond hair and a pointed, pale face. 
The second man turned at the sound of their footsteps. He, too, broke off in mid‐
conversation, his cold grey eyes narrowed and fixed upon Harryʹs face. 
ʹWell, well, well… Patronus Potter,ʹ said Lucius Malfoy coolly. 
Harry felt winded, as though he had just walked into something solid. He had 
last seen those cold grey eyes through slits in a Death Eaters hood, and last heard 
that manʹs voice jeering in a dark graveyard while Lord Voldemort tortured him. 
Harry could not believe that Lucius Malfoy dared look him in the face; he could 
not believe that he was here, in the Ministry of Magic, or that Cornelius Fudge 

was talking to him, when Harry had told Fudge mere weeks ago that Malfoy was 
a Death Eater. 
ʹThe Minister was just telling me about your lucky escape, Potter,ʹ drawled Mr 
Malfoy. ʹQuite astonishing, the way you continue to wriggle out of very tight 
holes… snakelike, in fact.ʹ 
Mr Weasley gripped Harryʹs shoulder in warning. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, ʹyeah, Iʹm good at escaping.ʹ 
Lucius Malfoy raised his eyes to Mr Weasleyʹs face. 
ʹAnd Arthur Weasley too! What are you doing here, Arthur?ʹ 
ʹI work here,ʹ said Mr Weasley curtly. 
ʹNot here, surely?ʹ said Mr Malfoy, raising his eyebrows and glancing towards the 
door over Mr Weasleyʹs shoulder. ʹI thought you were up on the second floor… 
donʹt you do something that involves sneaking Muggle artefacts home and 
bewitching them?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ Mr Weasley snapped, his fingers now biting into Harrys shoulder. 
What are you doing here, anyway?ʹ Harry asked Lucius Malfoy. 
ʹI donʹt think private matters between myself and the Minister are any concern of 
yours, Potter,ʹ said Malfoy, smoothing the front of his robes. Harry distinctly 
heard the gentle clinking of what sounded like a full pocket of gold. ʹReally, just 
because you are Dumbledoreʹs favourite boy, you must not expect the same 
indulgence from the rest of us… shall we go up to your office, then, Minister?ʹ 
ʹCertainlyʹ said Fudge, turning his back on Harry and Mr Weasley. This way, 
Lucius.ʹ 
They strode off together, talking in low voices. Mr Weasley did not let go of 
Harryʹs shoulder until they had disappeared into the lift. 
Why wasnʹt he waiting outside Fudgeʹs office if theyʹve got business to do 
together?ʹ Harry burst out furiously. What was he doing down here?ʹ 

ʹTrying to sneak down to the courtroom, if you ask me,ʹ said Mr Weasley, 
looking extremely agitated and glancing over his shoulder as though making 
sure they could not be overheard. Trying 
One or two of the wizards nodded to Harry as they passed and a few, including 
Madam Bones, said, ʹMorning, Arthur,ʹ to Mr Weasley, but most averted their 
eyes. Cornelius Fudge and the toadlike witch were almost the last to leave the 
dungeon. Fudge acted as though Mr Weasley and Harry were part of the wall, 
but again, the witch looked almost appraisingly at Harry as she passed. Last of 
all to pass was Percy. Like Fudge, he completely ignored his father and Harry; he 
marched past clutching a large roll of parchment and a handful of spare quills, 
his back rigid and his nose in the air. The lines around Mr Weasleyʹs mouth 
tightened slightly, but other than this he gave no sign that he had seen his third 
son. 
ʹIʹm going to take you straight back so you can tell the others the good news,ʹ he 
said, beckoning Harry forwards as Percyʹs heels disappeared up the steps to 
Level Nine. Til drop you off on the way to that toilet in Bethnal Green. Come 
on…ʺ 
ʹSo, what will you have to do about the toilet?ʹ Harry asked, grinning. Everything 
suddenly seemed five times funnier than usual. It was starting to sink in: he was 
cleared, he was going back to Hogwarts. 
ʹOh, itʹs a simple enough anti‐jinx,ʹ said Mr Weasley as they mounted the stairs, 
ʹbut itʹs not so much having to repair the damage, itʹs more the attitude behind 
the vandalism, Harry. Muggle‐baiting might strike some wizards as funny, but 
itʹs an expression of something much deeper and nastier, and I for one ‐ʹ 
Mr Weasley broke off in mid‐sentence. They had just reached the ninth‐level 
corridor and Cornelius Fudge was standing a few feet away from them, talking 
quietly to a tall man with sleek blond hair and a pointed, pale face. 
The second man turned at the sound of their footsteps. He, too, broke off in mid‐
conversation, his cold grey eyes narrowed and fixed upon Harryʹs face. 
ʹWell, well, well… Patronus Potter,ʹ said Lucius Malfoy coolly. 
Harry felt winded, as though he had just walked into something solid. He had 
last seen those cold grey eyes through slits in a Death Eaters hood, and last heard 
that manʹs voice jeering in a dark graveyard while Lord Voldemort tortured him. 

Harry could not believe that Lucius Malfoy dared look him in the face; he could 
not believe that he was here, in the Ministry of Magic, or that Cornelius Fudge 
was talking to him, when Harry had told Fudge mere weeks ago that Malfoy was 
a Death Eater. 
The Minister was just telling me about your lucky escape, Potter,ʹ drawled Mr 
Malfoy. ʹQuite astonishing, the way you continue to wriggle out of very tight 
holes… snakdike, in fact.ʹ 
Mr Weasley gripped Harryʹs shoulder in warning. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, ʹyeah, Iʹm good at escaping.ʹ 
Lucius Malfoy raised his eyes to Mr Weasleyʹs face. 
ʹAnd Arthur Weasley too! What are you doing here, Arthur?ʹ 
ʹI work here,ʹ said Mr Weasley curtly. 
ʹNot here, surely?ʹ said Mr Malfoy, raising his eyebrows and glancing towards the 
door over Mr Weasleyʹs shoulder. ʹI thought you were up on the second floor… 
donʹt you do something that involves sneaking Muggle artefacts home and 
bewitching them?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ Mr Weasley snapped, his fingers now biting into Harryʹs shoulder. 
ʹWhat are you doing here, anyway?ʹ Harry asked Lucius Malfoy. 
ʹI donʹt think private matters between myself and the Minister are any concern of 
yours, Potter,ʹ said Malfoy, smoothing the front of his robes. Harry distinctly 
heard the gentle clinking of what sounded like a full pocket of gold. ʹReally, just 
because you are Dumbledoreʹs favourite boy, you must not expect the same 
indulgence from the rest of us… shall we go up to your office, then, Minister?ʹ 
ʹCertainlyʹ said Fudge, turning his back on Harry and Mr Weasley. This way, 
Lucius.ʹ 
They strode off together, talking in low voices. Mr Weasley did not let go of 
Harryʹs shoulder until they had disappeared into the lift. 

ʹWhy wasnʹt he waiting outside Fudgeʹs office if theyʹve got business to do 
together?ʹ Harry burst out furiously. ʹWhat was he doing down here?ʹ 
ʹTrying to sneak down to the courtroom, if you ask me,ʹ said Mr Weasley, 
looking extremely agitated and glancing over his shoulder as though making 
sure they could not be overheard. Trying to find out whether youʹd been 
expelled or not. Iʹll leave a note for Dumbledore when I drop you off, he ought to 
know Malfoys been talking to Fudge again.ʹ 
ʹWhat private business have they got together, anyway?ʹ 
ʹGold, I expect,ʹ said Mr Weasley angrily. ʹMalfoyʹs been giving generously to all 
sorts of things for years… gets him in with the right people… then he can ask 
favours… delay laws he doesnʹt want passed… oh, heʹs very well‐connected, 
Lucius Malfoy.ʹ 
The lift arrived; it was empty except for a flock of memos that flapped around Mr 
Weasleyʹs head as he pressed the button for the Atrium and the doors clanged 
shut. He waved them away irritably. 
ʹMr Weasleyʹ said Harry slowly, ʹif Fudge is meeting Death Eaters like Malfoy, if 
heʹs seeing them alone, how do we know they havenʹt put the Imperius Curse on 
him?ʹ 
ʹDonʹt think it hasnʹt occurred to us, Harryʹ said Mr Weasley quietly. ʹBut 
Dumbledore thinks Fudge is acting of his own accord at the moment ‐ which, as 
Dumbledore says, is not a lot of comfort. Best not talk about it any more just 
now, Harry.ʹ 
The doors slid open and they stepped out into the now almost‐deserted Atrium. 
Eric the watchwizard was hidden behind his Daily Prophet again. They had 
walked straight past the golden fountain before Harry remembered. 
ʹWait…ʹ he told Mr Weasley, and, pulling his moneybag Irom his pocket, he 
turned back to the fountain. 
He looked up into the handsome wizardʹs face, but close‐to Harry thought he 
looked rather weak and foolish. The witch was wearing a vapid smile like a 
beauty contestant, and from what Harry knew of goblins and centaurs, they were 
most unlikely to be caught staring so soppily at humans of any description. Only 
the house‐elfʹs attitude of creeping servility looked convincing. With a grin at the 

thought of what Hermione would say if she could see the statue of the elf, Harry 
turned his moneybag upside‐down and emptied not just ten Galleons, but the 
whole contents into the pool. 
* 
ʹI knew it!ʹ yelled Ron, punching the air. ʹYou always get away with stuff!ʹ 
They were bound to clear you,ʹ said Hermione, who had looked positively faint 
with anxiety when Harry had entered the kitchen and was now holding a 
shaking hand over her eyes, ʹthere was no case against you, none at all.ʹ 
ʹEveryone seems quite relieved, though, considering you all knew Iʹd get off,ʹ 
said Harry, smiling. 
Mrs Weasley was wiping her face on her apron, and Fred, George and Ginny 
were doing a kind of war dance to a chant that went: ʹHe got off, he got off, he got 
off…ʺ 
Thatʹs enough! Settle down!ʹ shouted Mr Weasley, though he too was smiling. 
ʹListen, Sirius, Lucius Malfoy was at the Ministry ‐ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Sirius sharply. 
ʹHe got off, he got off, he got off…ʺ 
ʹBe quiet, you three! Yes, we saw him talking to Fudge on Level Nine, then they 
went up to Fudgeʹs office together. Dumbledore ought to know.ʹ 
ʹAbsolutely,ʹ said Sirius. ʹWeʹll tell him, donʹt worry.ʹ 
ʹWell, Iʹd better get going, thereʹs a vomiting toilet waiting for me in Bethnal 
Green. Molly, Iʹll be late, Iʹm covering for Tonks, but Kingsley might be dropping 
in for dinner ‐ʹ 
ʹHe got off, he got off, he got off…ʺ 
Thatʹs enough ‐ Fred ‐ George ‐ Ginny!ʹ said Mrs Weasley, as Mr Weasley left the 
kitchen. ʹHarry, dear, come and sit down, have some lunch, you hardly ate 
breakfast.ʹ 

Ron and Hermione sat themselves down opposite him, looking happier than 
they had done since he had first arrived at Grimmauld Place, and Harryʹs feeling 
of giddy relief, which had been somewhat dented by his encounter with Lucius 
Malfoy, swelled again. The gloomy house seemed warmer and more welcoming 
all of a sudden; even Kreacher looked less ugly as he poked his snoutlike nose 
into the kitchen to investigate the source of all the noise. 
ʹCourse, once Dumbledore turned up on your side, there was no way they were 
going to convict you,ʹ said Ron happily, now dishing great mounds of mashed 
potato on to everyoneʹs plates. 
ʹYeah, he swung it for me,ʹ said Harry. He felt it would sound highly ungrateful, 
not to mention childish, to say, ʹI wish heʹd talked to me, though. Or even looked 
at me.ʹ 
And as he thought this, the scar on his forehead burned so badly that he clapped 
his hand to it. 
ʹWhatʹs up?ʹ said Hermione, looking alarmed. 
ʹScar,ʹ Harry mumbled. ʹBut itʹs nothing… it happens all the time now…ʹ 
None of the others had noticed a thing; all of them were now helping themselves 
to food while gloating over Harrys narrow escape; Fred, George and Ginny were 
still singing. Hermione looked rather anxious, but before she could say anything, 
Ron had said happily, ʹI bet Dumbledore turns up this evening, to celebrate with 
us, you know.ʹ 
ʹI donʹt think heʹll be able to, Ron,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, setting a huge plate of roast 
chicken down in front of Harry. ʹHeʹs really very busy at the moment.ʹ 
ʹHE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF
ʹSHUT UP!ʹ roared Mrs Weasley. 
* 
Over the next few days Harry could not help noticing that there was one person 
within number twelve, Grimmauld Place, who did not seem wholly overjoyed 
that he would be returning to Hogwarts. Sirius had put up a very good show of 
happiness on first hearing the news, wringing Harryʹs hand and beaming just 

like the rest of them. Soon, however, he was moodier and surlier than before, 
talking less to everybody, even Harry, and spending increasing amounts of time 
shut up in his motherʹs room with Buckbeak. 
ʹDonʹt you go feeling guilty!ʹ said Hermione sternly, after Harry had confided 
some of his feelings to her and Ron while they scrubbed out a mouldy cupboard 
on the third floor a few days later. ʹYou belong at Hogwarts and Sirius knows it. 
Personally, I think heʹs being selfish.ʹ 
Thatʹs a bit harsh, Hermione,ʹ said Ron, frowning as he attempted to prise off a 
bit of mould that had attached itself firmly to his finger, ʹyou wouldnʹt want to be 
stuck inside this house without any company.ʹ 
ʹHeʹll have company!ʹ said Hermione. ʹItʹs Headquarters to the Order of the 
Phoenix, isnʹt it? He just got his hopes up that Harry would be coming to live 
here with him.ʹ 
donʹt think thatʹs true/ said Harry, wringing out his cloth. ʹHe wouldnʹt give me a 
straight answer when I asked him if 1 could.ʹ 
ʹHe just didnʹt want to get his own hopes up even more,ʹ said Hermione wisely. 
ʹAnd he probably felt a bit guilty himself, because I think a part of him was really 
hoping youʹd be expelled. Then youʹd both be outcasts together.ʹ 
ʹCome off it!ʹ said Harry and Ron together, but Hermione merely shrugged. 
ʹSuit yourselves. But I sometimes think Rons mums right and Sirius gets 
confused about whether youʹre you or your father, Harry.ʹ 
ʹSo you think heʹs touched in the head?ʹ said Harry heatedly. 
ʹNo, I just think heʹs been very lonely for a long time,ʹ said Hermione simply. 
At this point, Mrs Weasley entered the bedroom behind them. 
ʹStill not finished?ʹ she said, poking her head into the cupboard. 
ʹI thought you might be here to tell us to have a break!ʹ said Ron bitterly. ʹDʹyou 
know how much mould weʹve got rid of since we arrived here?ʹ 

ʹYou were so keen to help the Order,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, ʹyou can do your bit by 
making Headquarters fit to live in.ʹ 
ʹI feel like a house‐elf,ʹ grumbled Ron. 
ʹWell, now you understand what dreadful lives they lead, perhaps youʹll be a bit 
more active in SPEW!ʹ said Hermione hopefully, as Mrs Weasley left them to it. 
ʹYou know, maybe it wouldnʹt be a bad idea to show people exactly how horrible 
it is to clean all the time ‐ we could do a sponsored scrub ol Gryffindor common 
room, all proceeds to SPEW, it would raise awareness as well as funds.ʹ 
ʹIʹll sponsor you to shut up about SPEW,ʹ Ron muttered irritably, but only so 
Harry could hear him. 
* 
Harry found himself daydreaming about Hogwarts more and more as the end of 
the holidays approached; he could not wait to see Hagrid again, to play 
Quidditch, even to stroll across the vegetable patches to the Herbology 
greenhouses; it would be a treat just to leave this dusty, musty house, where half 
of the cupboards were still bolted shut and Kreacher wheezed insults out of the 
shadows as you passed, though Harry was careful not to say any of this within 
earshot of Sirius. 
The fact was that living at the Headquarters of the anti‐Voldemort movement 
was not nearly as interesting or exciting as Harry would have expected before 
heʹd experienced it. Though members of the Order of the Phoenix came and went 
regularly, sometimes staying for meals, sometimes only for a few minutes of 
whispered conversation, Mrs Weasley made sure that Harry and the others were 
kept well out of earshot (whether Extendable or normal) and nobody, not even 
Sirius, seemed to feel that Harry needed to know anything more than he had 
heard on the night of his arrival. 
On the very last day of the holidays Harry was sweeping up Hedwigs owl 
droppings from the top of the wardrobe when Ron entered their bedroom 
carrying a couple of envelopes. 
ʹBooklists have arrived,ʹ he said, throwing one of the envelopes up to Harry, who 
was standing on a chair. ʹAbout time, I thought theyʹd forgotten, they usually 
come much earlier than this…ʺ 

Harry swept the last of the droppings into a rubbish bag and threw the bag over 
Ronʹs head into the wastepaper basket in the corner, which swallowed it and 
belched loudly. He then opened his letter. It contained two pieces of parchment: 
one the usual reminder that term started on the first of September; the other 
telling him which books he would need for the coming year. 
ʹOnly two new ones,ʹ he said, reading the list, The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 5, 
by Miranda Goshawk, and Defensive Magical Theory, by Wilbert Slinkhard.ʹ 
Crack.
Fred and George Apparated right beside Harry. He was so used to them doing 
this by now that he didnʹt even fall off his chair. 
ʹWe were just wondering who set the Slinkhard book,ʹ said Fred 
conversationally. 
ʹBecause it means Dumbledoreʹs found a new Defence Against the Dark Arts 
teacher,ʹ said George. 
ʹAnd about time too,ʹ said Fred. 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean?ʹ Harry asked, jumping down beside them. 
ʹWell, we overheard Mum and Dad talking on the Extendable Ears a few weeks 
back,ʹ Fred told Harry, ʹand from what they were saying, Dumbledore was 
having real trouble finding anyone to do the job this year. 
ʹNot surprising, is it, when you look at whatʹs happened to the last four?ʹ said 
George. 
ʹOne sacked, one dead, oneʹs memory removed and one locked in a trunk for 
nine months,ʹ said Harry, counting them off on his fingers. ʹYeah, I see what you 
mean.ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs up with you, Ron?ʹ asked Fred. 
Ron did not answer. Harry looked round. Ron was standing very still with his 
mouth slightly open, gaping at his letter from Hogwarts. 

ʹWhatʹs the matter?ʹ said Fred impatiently, moving around Ron to look over his 
shoulder at the parchment. 
Fredʹs mouth fell open, too. 
ʹPrefect?ʹ he said, staring incredulously at the letter. ʹPrefect?ʹ 
George leapt forwards, seized the envelope in Ronʹs other hand and turned it 
upside‐down. Harry saw something scarlet and gold fall into Georgeʹs palm. 
ʹNo way,ʹ said George in a hushed voice. 
Thereʹs been a mistake,ʹ said Fred, snatching the letter out of Ronʹs grasp and 
holding it up to the light as though checking for a watermark. ʹNo one in their 
right mind would make Ron a prefect.ʹ 
The twinsʹ heads turned in unison and both of them stared at Harry. 
ʹWe thought you were a cert!ʹ said Fred, in a tone that suggested Harry had 
tricked them in some way. 
ʹWe thought Dumbledore was bound to pick you!ʹ said George indignantly. 
ʹWinning the Triwizard and everything!ʹ said Fred. 
ʹI suppose all the mad stuff mustʹve counted against him,ʹ said George to Fred. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Fred slowly. ʹYeah, youʹve caused too much trouble, mate. Well, at 
least one of youʹs got their priorities right.ʹ 
He strode over to Harry and clapped him on the back while giving Ron a 
scathing look. 
ʹPrefect… ickle Ronnie the Prefect.ʹ 
ʹOhh, Mumʹs going to be revolting,ʹ groaned George, thrusting the prefect badge 
back at Ron as though it might contaminate him. 
Ron, who still had not said a word, took the badge, stared at it for a moment, 
then held it out to Harry as though asking mutely for confirmation that it was 
genuine. Harry took it. A large Tʹ was superimposed on the Gryffindor lion. He 
had seen a badge just like this on Percys chest on his very first day at Hogwarts. 

The door banged open. Hermione came tearing into the room, her cheeks flushed 
and her hair flying. There was an envelope in her hand. 
ʹDid you ‐ did you get ‐?ʹ 
She spotted the badge in Harryʹs hand and let out a shriek. 
ʹ] knew it!ʹ she said excitedly, brandishing her letter. ʹMe too, Harry, me too!ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry quickly, pushing the badge back into Ronʹs hand. ʹItʹs Ron, not 
me.ʹ :
ʹIt ‐ what?ʹ i‐
ʹRonʹs prefect, not me,ʹ Harry said. 
ʹRon?ʹ said Hermione, her jaw dropping. ʹBut… are you sure? I mean ‐ʹ 
She turned red as Ron looked round at her with a defiant expression on his face. 
ʹIts my name on the letter,ʹ he said. 
ʹI…ʹ said Hermione, looking thoroughly bewildered. ʹ1… well… wow! Well 
done, Ron! Thatʹs really ‐ʹ 
ʹUnexpected,ʹ said George, nodding. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Hermione, blushing harder than ever, ʹno itʹs not… Ronʹs done loads 
of… heʹs really…ʹ 
The door behind her opened a little wider and Mrs Weasley backed into the 
room carrying a pile of freshly laundered robes. 
ʹGinny said the booklists had come at last,ʹ she said, glancing around at all the 
envelopes as she made her way over to the bed and started sorting the robes into 
two piles. ʹIf you give them to me Iʹll take them over to Diagon Alley this 
afternoon and get your books while youʹre packing. Ron, Iʹll have to get you 
more pyjamas, these are at least six inches too short, I canʹt believe how fast 
youʹre growing… what colour would you like?ʹ 
Tut WOES OF MRS WEASLEY 

ʹGet him red and gold to match his badge,ʹ said George, smirking. 
ʹMatch his what?ʹ said Mrs Weasley absently, rolling up a pair of maroon socks 
and placing them on Ronʹs pile. 
ʹHis badge,ʹ said Fred, with the air of getting the worst over quickly. ʹHis lovely 
shiny new prefectʹs badge.ʹ 
Fredʹs words took a moment to penetrate Mrs Weasleyʹs preoccupation with 
pyjamas. 
ʹHis… but… Ron, youʹre not…?ʹ 
Ron held up his badge. 
Mrs Weasley let out a shriek just like Hermioneʹs. 
ʹI donʹt believe it! I donʹt believe it! Oh, Ron, how wonderful! A prefect! Thatʹs 
everyone in the family!ʹ 
ʹWhat are Fred and I, next‐door neighbours?ʹ said George indignantly, as his 
mother pushed him aside and flung her arms around her youngest son. 
ʹWait until your father hears! Ron, Iʹm so proud of you, what wonderful news, 
you could end up Head Boy just like Bill and Percy, itʹs the first step! Oh, what a 
thing to happen in the middle of all this worry, Iʹm just thrilled, oh, Ronnie —
Fred and George were both making loud retching noises behind her back but 
Mrs Weasley did not notice; arms tight around Ronʹs neck, she was kissing him 
all over his face, which had turned a brighter scarlet than his badge. 
ʹMum… donʹt… Mum, get a grip…ʹ he muttered, trying to push her away. 
She let go of him and said breathlessly, ʹWell, what will it be? We gave Percy an 
owl, but youʹve already got one, of course.ʹ 
W‐what do you mean?ʹ said Ron, looking as though he did not dare believe his 
ears. 
ʹYouʹve got to have a reward for this!ʹ said Mrs Weasley fondly. ʹHow about a 
nice new set of dress robes?ʹ 

ʹWeʹve already bought him some,ʹ said Fred sourly, who looked as though he 
sincerely regretted this generosity. 
ʹOr a new cauldron, Charlies old oneʹs rusting through, or a new rat, you always 
liked Scabbers ‐ʹ 
ʹMum,ʹ said Ron hopefully, ʹcan I have a new broom?ʹ 
Mrs Weasleyʹs face fell slightly; broomsticks were expensive. 
ʹNot a really good one!ʹ Ron hastened to add. ʹJust ‐just a new one for a 
change…ʺ 
Mrs Weasley hesitated, then smiled. 
ʹOf course you can… well, Iʹd better get going if Iʹve got a broom to buy too. Iʹll 
see you all later… little Ronnie, a prefect! And donʹt forget to pack your trunks… 
a prefect… oh, Iʹm all of a dither!ʹ 
She gave Ron yet another kiss on the cheek, sniffed loudly, and bustled from the 
room. 
Fred and George exchanged looks. 
ʹYou donʹt mind if we donʹt kiss you, do you, Ron?ʹ said Fred in a falsely anxious 
voice. 
ʹWe could curtsey, if you like,ʹ said George. 
ʹOh, shut up,ʹ said Ron, scowling at them. 
ʹOr what?ʹ said Fred, an evil grin spreading across his face. ʹGoing to put us in 
detention?ʹ 
Iʹd love to see him try,ʹ sniggered George. 
ʹHe could if you donʹt watch out!ʹ said Hermione angrily. 
Fred and George burst out laughing, and Ron muttered, ʹDrop it, Hermione.ʹ 
ʹWeʹre going to have to watch our step, George,ʹ said Fred, pretending to tremble, 
ʹwith these two on our case…ʹ 

ʹYeah, it looks like our law‐breaking days are finally over,ʹ said George, shaking 
his head. 
And with another loud crack, the twins Disapparated. 
Those two!ʹ said Hermione furiously, staring up at the ceiling, through which 
they could now hear Fred and George roaring with laughter in the room 
upstairs. ʹDonʹt pay any attention to them, Ron, theyʹre only jealous!ʹ 
ʹI donʹt think they are,ʹ said Ron doubtfully, also looking up at the ceiling. 
Theyʹve always said only prats become prefects… still,ʹ he added on a happier 
note, ʹtheyʹve never had new brooms! I wish I could go with Mum and choose… 
sheʹll never be able to afford a Nimbus, but thereʹs the new Cleansweep out, 
thatʹd be great… yeah, I think Iʹll go and tell her I like the Cleansweep, just so she 
knows 
He dashed from the room, leaving Harry and Hermione alone. 
For some reason, Harry found he did not want to look at 
THE WOES OF MRS WE A SLEY 1^ 
Hermione. He turned to his bed, picked up the pile of clean robes Mrs Weasley 
had laid on it and crossed the room to his trunk. 
ʹHarry?ʹ said Hermione tentatively. 
ʹWell done, Hermione,ʹ said Harry, so heartily it did not sound like his voice at 
all, and, still not looking at her, ʹbrilliant. Prefect. Great.ʹ 
Thanks,ʹ said Hermione. ʹErm ‐ Harry ‐ could I borrow Hedwig so I can tell Mum 
and Dad? Theyʹll be really pleased ‐ I mean prefect is something they can 
understand.ʹ 
ʹYeah, no problem,ʹ said Harry, still in the horrible hearty voice that did not 
belong to him. Take her!ʹ 
He leaned over his trunk, laid the robes on the bottom of it and pretended to be 
rummaging for something while Hermione crossed to the wardrobe and called 
Hedwig down. A few moments passed; Harry heard the door close but remained 
bent double, listening; the only sounds he could hear were the blank picture on 

the wall sniggering again and the wastepaper basket in the corner coughing up 
the owl droppings. 
He straightened up and looked behind him. Hermione had left and Hedwig had 
gone. Harry hurried across the room, closed the door, then returned slowly to his 
bed and sank on to it, gazing unseeingly at the foot of the wardrobe. 
He had forgotten completely about prefects being chosen in the fifth year. He 
had been too anxious about the possibility of being expelled to spare a thought 
for the fact that badges must be winging their way towards certain people. But if 
he had remembered… if he had thought about it… what would he have expected? 
Not this, said a small and truthful voice inside his head. 
Harry screwed up his face and buried it in his hands. He could not lie to himself; 
if he had known the prefect badge was on its way, he would have expected it to 
come to him, not Ron. Did this make him as arrogant as Draco Malfoy? Did he 
think himself superior to everyone else? Did he really believe he was better than 
Ron? 
No, said the small voice defiantly. 
Was that true? Harry wondered, anxiously probing his own feelings. 
Iʹm better at Quidditch, said the voice. But Iʹm not better at anything else. 
That was definitely true, Harry thought; he was no better than Ron in lessons. 
But what about outside lessons? What about those adventures he, Ron and 
Hermione had had together since starting at Hogwarts, often risking much worse 
than expulsion? 
Well, Ron and Hermione were with me most of the time, said the voice in Harryʹs 
head. 
Not all the time, though, Harry argued with himself. They didnʹt fight Quirrell 
with me. They didnʹt take on Riddle and the Basilisk. They didnʹt get rid of all 
those Dementors the night Sirius escaped. They werenʹt in that graveyard with 
me, the night Voldemort returned… 

And the same feeling of ill‐usage that had overwhelmed him on the night he had 
arrived rose again. Iʹve definitely done more, Harry thought indignantly. Iʹve 
done more than either of them! 
But maybe, said the small voice fairly, maybe Dumbledore doesnʹt choose prefects 
because theyʹve got themselves into a load of dangerous situations… maybe he chooses 
them for other reasons… Ron must have something you donʹt… 
Harry opened his eyes and stared through his fingers at the wardrobeʹs clawed 
feet, remembering what Fred had said: ʹNo one in their right mind would make 
Ron a prefect…ʹ 
Harry gave a small snort of laughter. A second later he felt sickened with 
himself. 
Ron had not asked Dumbledore to give him the prefect badge. This was not 
Ronʹs fault. Was he, Harry, Ronʹs best friend in the world, going to sulk because 
he didnʹt have a badge, laugh with the twins behind Ronʹs back, ruin this for Ron 
when, for the first time, he had beaten Harry at something? 
At this point Harry heard Ronʹs footsteps on the stairs again. He stood up, 
straightened his glasses, and hitched a grin on to his face as Ron bounded back 
through the door. 
ʹJust caught her!ʹ he said happily. ʹShe says sheʹll get the Cleansweep if she can.ʹ 
ʹCool,ʹ Harry said, and he was relieved to hear that his voice had stopped 
sounding hearty. ʹListen ‐ Ron ‐ well done, mate.ʹ 
The smile faded off Ronʹs face. 
ʹI never thought it would be me!ʹ he said, shaking his head. ʹI thought it would be 
you!ʹ 
ʹNah, Iʹve caused too much trouble,ʹ Harry said, echoing Fred. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Ron, ʹyeah, I suppose… well, weʹd better get our trunks packed, 
hadnʹt we?ʹ 
It was odd how widely their possessions seemed to have scattered themselves 
since they had arrived. It took them most of the afternoon to retrieve their books 

and belongings from all over the house and stow them back inside their school 
trunks. Harry noticed that Ron kept moving his prefects badge around, first 
placing it on his bedside table, then putting it into his jeans pocket, then taking it 
out and lying it on his folded robes, as though to see the effect of the red on the 
black. Only when Fred and George dropped in and offered to attach it to his 
forehead with a Permanent Sticking Charm did he wrap it tenderly in his 
maroon socks and lock it in his trunk. 
Mrs Weasley returned from Diagon Alley around six oʹclock, laden with books 
and carrying a long package wrapped in thick brown paper that Ron took from 
her with a moan of longing. 
ʹNever mind unwrapping it now, people are arriving for dinner, 1 want you all 
downstairs,ʹ she said, but the moment she was out of sight Ron ripped off the 
paper in a frenzy and examined every inch of his new broom, an ecstatic 
expression on his face. 
Down in the basement Mrs Weasley had hung a scarlet banner over the heavily 
laden dinner table, which read: 
CONGRATULATIONS 
RON AND HERMIONE 
NEW PREFECTS 
She looked in a better mood than Harry had seen her all holiday. 
ʹI thought weʹd have a little party, not a sit‐down dinner,ʹ she told Harry, Ron, 
Hermione, Fred, George and Ginny as they entered the room. ʹYour father and 
Bill are on their way, Ron. Iʹve sent them both owls and theyʹre thrilled,ʹ she 
added, beaming. 
Fred rolled his eyes. 
Sirius, Lupin, Tonks and Kingsley Shacklebolt were already there and Mad‐Eye 
Moody stumped in shortly after Harry had got himself a Butterbeer. 
ʹOh, Alastor, I am glad youʹre here,ʹ said Mrs Weasley brightly, as Mad‐Eye 
shrugged off his travelling cloak. ʹWeʹve been wanting to ask you for ages ‐ could 

you have a look in the writing desk in the drawing room and tell us whatʹs inside 
it? We havenʹt wanted to open it just in case itʹs something really nasty.ʹ 
ʹNo problem, Molly…ʹ 
Moodyʹs electric‐blue eye swivelled upwards and stared fixedly through the 
ceiling of the kitchen. 
ʹDrawing room…ʹ he growled, as the pupil contracted. ʹDesk in the corner? Yeah, 
I see it… yeah, itʹs a Boggart… want me to go up and get rid of it, Molly?ʹ 
ʹNo, no, Iʹll do it myself later,ʹ beamed Mrs Weasley, ʹyou have your drink. Weʹre 
having a little bit of a celebration, actually…ʹ She gestured at the scarlet banner. 
ʹFourth prefect in the family!ʹ she said fondly, ruffling Ronʹs hair. 
ʹPrefect, eh?ʹ growled Moody, his normal eye on Ron and his magical eye 
swivelling around to gaze into the side of his head. Harry had the very 
uncomfortable feeling it was looking at him and moved away towards Sirius and 
Lupin. 
Well, congratulations,ʹ said Moody, still glaring at Ron with his normal eye, 
ʹauthority figures always attract trouble, but I suppose Dumbledore thinks you 
can withstand most major jinxes or he wouldnʹt have appointed you…ʹ 
Ron looked rather startled at this view of the matter but was saved the trouble of 
responding by the arrival of his father and eldest brother. Mrs Weasley was in 
such a good mood she did not even complain that they had brought Mundungus 
with them; he was wearing a long overcoat that seemed oddly lumpy in unlikely 
places and declined the offer to remove it and put it with Moodyʹs travelling 
cloak. 
Well, I think a toast is in order,ʹ said Mr Weasley, when everyone had a drink. He 
raised his goblet. To Ron and Hermione, the new Gryffindor prefects!ʹ 
Ron and Hermione beamed as everyone drank to them, and then applauded. 
ʹI was never a prefect myself,ʹ said Tonks brightly from behind Harry as 
everybody moved towards the table to help themselves to food. Her hair was 
tomato red and waist‐length today; she looked like Ginnyʹs older sister. ʹMy 
Head of House said I lacked certain necessary qualities.ʹ 

ʹLike what?ʹ said Ginny, who was choosing a baked potato. 
ʹLike the ability to behave myself,ʹ said Tonks. 
Ginny laughed; Hermione looked as though she did not know whether to smile 
or not and compromised by taking an extra large gulp of Butterbeer and choking 
on it. 
ʹWhat about you, Sirius?ʹ Ginny asked, thumping Hermione on the back. 
Sirius, who was right beside Harry, let out his usual bark‐like laugh. 
ʹNo one would have made me a prefect, I spent too much time in detention with 
James. Lupin was the good boy, he got the badge.ʹ 
ʹI think Dumbledore might have hoped I would be able to exercise some control 
over my best friends,ʹ said Lupin. ʹI need scarcely say that 1 failed dismally.ʹ 
Harryʹs mood suddenly lifted. His father had not been a prefect either. All at 
once the party seemed much more enjoyable; he loaded up his plate, feeling 
doubly fond of everyone in the room. 
Ron was rhapsodising about his new broom to anybody who would listen. 
ʹ… nought to seventy in ten seconds, not bad, is it? When you think the Comet 
Two Ninetyʹs only nought to sixty and thatʹs with a decent tailwind according to 
Which Broomstick?ʹ 
Hermione was talking very earnestly to Lupin about her view of elf rights. 
ʹI mean, itʹs the same kind of nonsense as werewolf segregation, isnʹt it? It all 
stems from this horrible thing wizards have of thinking theyʹre superior to other 
creatures…ʺ 
Mrs Weasley and Bill were having their usual argument about Billʹs hair. 
ʹ… getting really out of hand, and youʹre so good‐looking, it would look much 
better shorter, wouldnʹt it, Harry?ʹ 

ʹOh ‐ I dunno ‐ʹ said Harry, slightly alarmed at being asked his opinion; he slid 
away from them in the direction of Fred and George, who were huddled in a 
corner with Mundungus. 
Mundungus stopped talking when he saw Harry, but Fred winked and beckoned 
Harry closer. 
ʹIts OK,ʹ he told Mundungus, ʹwe can trust Harry, heʹs our financial backer.ʹ 
ʹLook what Dungʹs got us,ʹ said George, holding out his hand to Harry. It was 
full of what looked like shrivelled black pods. A faint rattling noise was coming 
from them, even though they were completely stationary. 
ʹVenomous Tentacula seeds,ʹ said George. ʹWe need them for the Skiving 
Snackboxes but theyʹre a Class C Non‐Tradeable Substance so weʹve been having 
a bit of trouble getting hold of them.ʹ 
Ten Galleons the lot, then. Dung?ʹ said Fred. 
ʹWiv all the trouble 1 went to to get ʹem?ʹ said Mundungus, his saggy, bloodshot 
eyes stretching even wider. ʹIʹm sorry, lads, but Iʹm not taking a Knut under 
twenty.ʹ 
ʹDung likes his little joke,ʹ Fred said to Harry. 
ʹYeah, his best one so far has been six Sickles for a bag of Knarl quills,ʹ said 
George. 
ʹBe careful,ʹ Harry warned them quietly. 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Fred. ʹMumʹs busy cooing over Prefect Ron, weʹre OK.ʹ 
ʹBut Moody could have his eye on you,ʹ Harry pointed out. 
Mundungus looked nervously over his shoulder. 
ʹGood point, that,ʹ he grunted. ʹAll right, lads, ten it is, if youʹll take ʹem quick; 
ʹCheers, Harry!ʹ said Fred delightedly, when Mundungus had emptied his 
pockets into the twinsʹ outstretched hands and scuttled off towards the food. 
ʹWeʹd better get these upstairs…ʹ 

Harry watched them go, feeling slightly uneasy. It had just occurred to him that 
Mr and Mrs Weasley would want to know how Fred and George were financing 
their joke shop business when, as was inevitable, they finally found out about it. 
Giving l he twins his Triwizard winnings had seemed a simple thing to do at the 
time, but what if it led to another family row and a Percy‐like estrangement? 
Would Mrs Weasley still feel that Harry was as 
Tut Woi ‐ OF MR— WEASIEY 
good as her son il she lound out he had made it possible for Fred and George to 
start a career she thought quite unsuitable? 
Standing where the twins had left him, with nothing but a guilty weight in the 
pit ol his stomaeh tor eompany, Harry caught the sound ol his own name. 
Kingsley Shackleboltʹs deep voice was audible even over the surrounding 
chatter. 
ʹ… why Dumbledore didnʹt make Potter a prefect?ʹ said Kingsley. 
ʹHeʹll have had his reasons,ʹ replied Lupin. 
ʹBut it wouldʹve shown confidence in him. Itʹs what Iʹdʹve done,ʹ persisted 
Kingsley, ʹspecially with the Daily Prophet having a go at him every few days…ʺ 
Harry did not look round; he did not want Lupin or Kingsley to know he had 
heard. Though not remotely hungry, he followed Mundungus back towards the 
table. His pleasure in the party had evaporated as quickly as it had come; he 
wished he were upstairs in bed. 
Mad‐Eye Moody was sniffing at a chicken‐leg with what remained of his nose; 
evidently he could not detect any trace of poison, because he then tore a strip off 
it with his teeth. 
ʹ… the handles made of Spanish oak with anti‐jinx varnish and in‐built vibration 
control ‐ʹ Ron was saying to Tonks. 
Mrs Weasley yawned widely. 
ʹWell, I think Iʹll sort out that Boggart before I turn in… Arthur, 1 donʹt want this 
lot up too late, all right? Night, Harry, dear.ʹ 

She left the kitchen. Harry set down his plate and wondered whether he could 
follow her without attracting attention. 
ʹYou all right, Potter?ʹ grunted Moody. 
ʹYeah, fine,ʹ lied Harry. 
Moody took a swig from his hipflask, his electric‐blue eye staring sideways at 
Harry. 
ʹCome here, Iʹve got something that might interest you,ʹ he said. 
From an inner pocket of his robes Moody pulled a very tattered old wizarding 
photograph. 
ʹOriginal Order of the Phoenix,ʹ growled Moody. ʹFound it last night when I was 
looking for my spare Invisibility Cloak, seeing as Podmore hasnʹt had the 
manners to return my best one… thought people might like to see it.ʹ 
Harry took the photograph. A small crowd of people, some waving at him, 
others lifting their glasses, looked back up at him. 
Thereʹs me,ʹ said Moody, unnecessarily pointing at himself. The Moody in the 
picture was unmistakeable, though his hair was slightly less grey and his nose 
was intact. ʹAnd thereʹs Dumbledore beside me, Dedalus Diggle on the other 
side… thatʹs Marlene McKinnon, she was killed two weeks after this was taken, 
they got her whole family. Thatʹs Frank and Alice Longbottom ‐ʹ 
Harrys stomach, already uncomfortable, clenched as he looked at Alice 
Longbottom; he knew her round, friendly face very well, even though he had 
never met her, because she was the image of her son, Neville. 
ʹ— poor devils,ʹ growled Moody. ʹBetter dead than what happened to them… 
and thatʹs Emmeline Vance, youʹve met her, and that thereʹs Lupin, obviously… 
Benjy Fenwick, he copped it too, we only ever found bits of him… shift aside 
there,ʹ he added, poking the picture, and the little photographic people edged 
sideways, so that those who were partially obscured could move to the front. 
Thatʹs Edgar Bones… brother of Amelia Bones, they got him and his family, too, 
he was a great wizard… Sturgis Podmore, blimey, he looks young… Caradoc 
Dearborn, vanished six months after this, we never found his body… Hagrid, of 

course, looks exactly the same as ever… Elphias Doge, youʹve met him, Iʹd 
forgotten he used to wear that stupid hat… Gideon Prewett, it took five Death 
Eaters to kill him and his brother Fabian, they fought like heroes… budge along, 
budge along…ʹ 
The little people in the photograph jostled among themselves and those hidden 
right at the back appeared at the forefront of the picture. 
Thatʹs Dumbledoreʹs brother Aberforth, only time 1 ever met him, strange 
bloke… thatʹs Dorcas Meadowes, Voldemort killed her personally… Sirius, when 
he still had short hair… and… there you go, thought that would interest you!ʹ 
Harryʹs heart turned over. His mother and father were beaming up at him, 
sitting on either side of a small, watery‐eyed man whom Harry recognised at 
once as Wormtail, the one who had betrayed his parentsʹ whereabouts to 
Voldemort and so helped to bring about their deaths. 
ʹEh?ʹ said Moody. 
Harry looked up into Moodyʹs heavily scarred and pitted face. Evidently Moody 
was under the impression he had just given Harry a bit of a treat. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, once again attempting to grin. ʹEr… listen, Iʹve just 
remembered, I havenʹt packed my…ʹ 
He was spared the trouble of inventing an object he had not packed. Sirius had 
just said, ʹWhatʹs that youʹve got there, Mad‐Eye?ʹ and Moody had turned 
towards him. Harry crossed the kitchen, slipped through the door and up the 
stairs before anyone could call him back. 
He did not know why it had been such a shock; he had seen pictures of his 
parents before, after all, and he had met Wormtail but to have them sprung on 
him like that, when he was least expecting it… no one would like that, he 
thought angrily… 
And then, to see them surrounded by all those other happy faces… Benjy 
Eenwick, who had been found in bits, and Gideon Prewett, who had died like a 
hero, and the Longbottoms, who had been tortured into madness… all waving 
happily out of the photograph forever more, not knowing that they were 
doomed… well, Moody might find that interesting… he, Harry, found it 
disturbing… 

Harry tiptoed up the stairs in the hall past the stuffed elf‐heads, glad to be on his 
own again, but as he approached the first landing he heard noises. Someone was 
sobbing in the drawing room. 
ʹHello?ʹ Harry said. 
There was no answer but the sobbing continued. He climbed the remaining stairs 
two at a time, walked across the landing and opened the drawing‐room door. 
Someone was cowering against the dark wall, her wand in her hand, her whole 
body shaking with sobs. Sprawled on the dusty old carpet in a patch of 
moonlight, clearly dead, was Ron. 
All the air seemed to vanish from Harryʹs lungs; he felt as though he were falling 
through the floor; his brain turned icy cold ‐ Ron dead, no, it couldnʹt be ‐ 
But wait a moment, it couldnʹt be ‐ Ron was downstairs ‐ 
HARRY Po i TER 
ʹMrs Weasley?ʹ Harry croaked. 
ʹR ‐ r ‐ riddikulus!ʹ Mrs Weasley sobbed, pointing her shaking wand at Ronʹs 
body. 
Crack.
Ronʹs body turned into Billʹs, spread‐eagled on his back, his eyes wide open and 
empty. Mrs Weasley sobbed harder than ever. 
ʹR ‐ riddikulus!ʹ she sobbed again. 
Crack.
Mr Weasleyʹs body replaced Billʹs, his glasses askew, a trickle of blood running 
down his face. 
ʹNo!ʹ Mrs Weasley moaned. ʹNo… riddikulus] Riddikulus! RID‐DlKULUSr
Crack. Dead twins. Crack. Dead Percy. Crack. Dead Harry… 

ʹMrs Weasley, just get out of here!ʹ shouted Harry, staring down at his own dead 
body on the floor. ʹLet someone else ‐ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs going on?ʹ 
Lupin had come running into the room, closely followed by Sirius, with Moody 
stumping along behind them. Lupin looked from Mrs Weasley to the dead Harry 
on the tloor and seemed to understand in an instant. Pulling out his own wand, 
he said, very ürmly and clearly: 
ʹRiddikulus!ʹ
Harryʹs body vanished. A silvery orb hung in the air over the spot where it had 
lain. Lupin waved his wand once more and the orb vanished in a puff of smoke. 
ʹOh ‐ oh ‐ oh!ʹ gulped Mrs Weasley, and she broke into a storm of crying, her face 
in her hands. 
ʹMolly,ʹ said Lupin bleakly, walking over to her. ʹMolly donʹt…ʺ 
Next second, she was sobbing her heart out on Lupinʹs shoulder. 
ʹMolly, it was just a Boggart,ʹ he said soothingly, patting her on the head, ʹjust a 
stupid Boggart…ʹ 
ʹI see them d‐d ‐ dead all the time!ʹ Mrs Weasley moaned into his shoulder. ʹAll 
theʹt ‐ʹt ‐ time! 1 d ‐ d ‐ dream about it…ʹ 
Sirius was staring at the patch of carpet where the Boggart, pretending to be 
Harryʹs body, had lain. Moody was looking at Harry, who avoided his gaze. He 
had a funny feeling Moodyʹs magical eye had followed him all the way out of the 
kitchen. 
THEWOFS OF MRS WEASLEY 
ʹD‐d ‐ donʹt tell Arthur,ʹ Mrs Weasley was gulping now, mopping her eyes 
frantically with her cuffs. ʹI d ‐ d ‐ donʹt want him to know… being silly…ʹ 
Lupin handed her a handkerchief and she blew her nose. 

ʹHarry, Iʹm so sorry. What must you think of me?ʹ she said shakily. ʹNot even 
able to get rid of a Boggart…ʹ 
ʹDonʹt be stupid,ʹ said Harry, trying to smile. 
ʹIʹm justʹs ‐ʹs ‐ so worried,ʹ she said, tears spilling out of her eyes again. ʹHalf the f 
‐ f ‐ familyʹs in the Order, itʹll b ‐ b ‐ be a miracle if we all come through this… 
and P ‐ P ‐ Percys not talking to us… what if something d‐d ‐ dreadful happens 
and weʹve never in ‐ in ‐ made it up with him? And whatʹs going to happen if 
Arthur and I get killed, whoʹs g ‐ g ‐ going to look after Ron and Ginny?ʹ 
ʹMolly thatʹs enough; said Lupin firmly. ʹThis isnʹt like last time. The Order are 
better prepared, weʹve got a head start, we know what Voldemorts up to ‐ʹ 
Mrs Weasley gave a little squeak of fright at the sound of the name. 
ʹOh, Molly, come on, itʹs about time you got used to hearing his name ‐ look, I 
canʹt promise no oneʹs going to get hurt, nobody can promise that, but weʹre 
much better off than we were last time. You werenʹt in the Order then, you donʹt 
understand. Last time we were outnumbered twenty to one by the Death Eaters 
and they were picking us off one by one…ʹ 
Harry thought of the photograph again, of his parentsʹ beaming faces. He knew 
Moody was still watching him. 
ʹDonʹt worry about Percyʹ said Sirius abruptly. ʹHeʹll come round. Itʹs only a 
matter of time before Voldemort moves into the open; once he does, the whole 
Ministryʹs going to be begging us to forgive them. And Iʹm not sure Iʹll be 
accepting their apology,ʹ he added bitterly. 
ʹAnd as for whoʹs going to look after Ron and Ginny if you and Arthur died,ʹ said 
Lupin, smiling slightly, ʹwhat do you think weʹd do, let them starve?ʹ 
Mrs Weasley smiled tremulously. 
ʹBeing silly,ʹ she muttered again, mopping her eyes. 
But Harry, closing his bedroom door behind him some ten 
HARRY Pun ER 

minutes later, could not think Mrs Weasley silly. He could still see his parents 
beaming up at him from the tattered old photograph, unaware that their lives, 
like so many of those around them, were drawing to a close. The image of the 
Boggart posing as the corpse of each member of Mrs Weasleyʹs family in turn 
kept flashing before his eyes. 
Without warning, the scar on his forehead seared with pain again and his 
stomach churned horribly. 
ʹCut it out,ʹ he said firmly, rubbing the scar as the pain receded. 
ʹFirst sigh of madness, talking to your own head,ʹ said a sly voice from the empty 
picture on the wall. 
Harry ignored it. He felt older than he had ever felt in his lite and it seemed 
extraordinary to him that barely an hour ago he had been worried about a joke 
shop and who had got a prefects badge. 
Then the whispering stopped. Harry wanted to look up at the judges, but found 
that it was really much, much easier to keep examining his laces. 
Those in favour of clearing the witness of all charges?ʹ said Madam Boness 
booming voice. 
Harrys head jerked upwards. There were hands in the air, many of them… more 
than half! Breathing very fast, he tried to count, but before he could finish, 
Madam Bones had said, ʹAnd those in favour of conviction?ʹ 
Fudge raised his hand; so did half a dozen others, including the witch on his 
right and the heavily‐moustached wizard and the frizzy‐haired witch in the 
second row. 
Fudge glanced around at them all, looking as though there was something large 
stuck in his throat, then lowered his own hand. He took two deep breaths and 
said, in a voice distorted by suppressed rage, ʹVery well, very well… cleared of 
all charges.ʹ 
ʹExcellent,ʹ said Dumbledore briskly, springing to his feet, pulling out his wand 
and causing the two chintz armchairs to vanish. ʹWell, I must be getting along. 
Good‐day to you all.ʹ 

And without looking once at Harry, he swept from the dungeon. 
— CHAPTER TEN — 
Luna Lovegood
Harry had a troubled nights sleep. His parents wove in and out of his dreams, 
never speaking; Mrs Weasley sobbed over Kreachers dead body, watched by Ron 
and Hermione who were wearing crowns, and yet again Harry found himself 
walking down a corridor ending in a locked door. He awoke abruptly with his 
scar prickling to find Ron already dressed and talking to him. 
ʹ… better hurry up, Mumʹs going ballistic, she says weʹre going to miss the tram 
There was a lot of commotion in the house. From what he heard as he dressed at 
top speed, Harry gathered that Fred and George had bewitched their trunks to 
fly downstairs to save the bother of carrying them, with the result that they had 
hurtled straight into Ginny and knocked her down two flights of stairs into the 
hall; Mrs Black and Mrs Weasley were both screaming at the top of their voices. 
ʹ‐ COULD HAVE DONE HER A SERIOUS INJURY, YOU IDIOTS ‐ʹ 
ʹ‐ FILTHY HALF‐BREEDS, BESMIRCHING THE HOUSE OF MY FATHERS ‐ʹ 
Hermione came hurrying into the room looking flustered, just as Harry was 
putting on his trainers. Hedwig was swaying on her shoulder, and she was 
carrying a squirming Crookshanks in her arms. 
ʹMum and Dad just sent Hedwig back.ʹ The owl fluttered obligingly over and 
perched on top of her cage. ʹAre you ready yet?ʹ 
ʹNearly. Is Ginny all right?ʹ Harry asked, shoving on his glasses. 
ʹMrs Weasleyʹs patched her up,ʹ said Hermione. ʹBut now Mad‐ 
Eyeʹs complaining that we canʹt leave unless Sturgis Podmoreʹs here, otherwise 
the guard will be one short.ʹ 
ʹGuard?ʹ said Harry. ʹWe have to go to Kingʹs Cross with a guard?ʹ 
ʹYou have to go to Kingʹs Cross with a guard,ʹ Hermione corrected him. 

ʹWhy?ʹ said Harry irritably. ʹI thought Voldemort was supposed to be lying low, 
or are you telling me heʹs going to jump out from behind a dustbin to try and do 
me in?ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know, itʹs just what Mad‐Eye says,ʹ said Hermione distractedly, looking 
at her watch, ʹbut if we donʹt leave soon weʹre definitely going to miss the 
train…ʹ 
WILL YOU LOT GET DOWN HERE NOW, PLEASE!ʹ Mrs Weasley bellowed 
and Hermione jumped as though scalded and hurried out of the room. Harry 
seized Hedwig, stuffed her unceremoniously into her cage, and set off 
downstairs after Hermione, dragging his trunk. 
Mrs Blackʹs portrait was howling with rage but nobody was bothering to close 
the curtains over her; all the noise in the hall was bound to rouse her again, 
anyway. 
ʹHarry, youʹre to come with me and Tonks,ʹ shouted Mrs Weasley ‐ over the 
repeated screeches of ʹMUDBLOODS! SCUM! CREATURES OF DIRT!ʹ ‐ ʹLeave 
your trunk and your owl, Alastorʹs going to deal with the luggage… oh, for 
heavenʹs sake, Sinus, Dumbledore said no!ʹ 
A bear‐like black dog had appeared at Harryʹs side as he was clambering over 
the various trunks cluttering the hall to get to Mrs Weasley. 
ʹOh honestly…ʹ said Mrs Weasley despairingly. ʹWell, on your own head be it!ʹ 
She wrenched open the front door and stepped out into the weak September 
sunlight. Harry and the dog followed her. The door slammed behind them and 
Mrs Blacks screeches were cut off instantly. 
Whereʹs Tonks?ʹ Harry said, looking round as they went down the stone steps of 
number twelve, which vanished the moment they reached the pavement. 
ʹSheʹs waiting for us just up here,ʹ said Mrs Weasley stiffly, averting her eyes 
from the lolloping black dog beside Harry. 
An old woman greeted them on the corner. She had tightly curled grey hair and 
wore a purple hat shaped like a pork pie. 

ʹWotcher, Harry,ʹ she said, winking. ʹBetter hurry up, hadnʹt we, Molly?ʹ she 
added, checking her watch. 
ʹI know, I know,ʹ moaned Mrs Weasley, lengthening her stride, ʹbut Mad‐Eye 
wanted to wait for Sturgis… if only Arthur could have got us cars from the 
Ministry again… but Fudge wonʹt let him borrow so much as an empty ink bottle 
these days… how Muggles can stand travelling without magic 
But the great black dog gave a joyful bark and gambolled around them, snapping 
at pigeons and chasing its own tail. Harry couldnʹt help laughing. Sirius had 
been trapped inside for a very long time. Mrs Weasley pursed her lips in an 
almost Aunt Petunia‐ish way. 
It took them twenty minutes to reach Kingʹs Cross on foot and nothing more 
eventful happened during that time than Sirius scaring a couple of cats for 
Harryʹs entertainment. Once inside the station they lingered casually beside the 
barrier between platforms nine and ten until the coast was clear, then each of 
them leaned against it in turn and fell easily through on to platform nine and 
three‐quarters, where the Hogwarts Express stood belching sooty steam over a 
platform packed with departing students and their families. Harry inhaled the 
familiar smell and felt his spirits soar… he was really going back… 
ʹ1 hope the others make it in time,ʹ said Mrs Weasley anxiously, staring behind 
her at the wrought‐iron arch spanning the platform, through which new arrivals 
would come. 
ʹNice dog, Harry!ʹ called a tall boy with dreadlocks. 
ʹThanks, Lee,ʹ said Harry, grinning, as Sirius wagged his tail frantically. 
ʹOh good,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, sounding relieved, ʹhereʹs Alastor with the luggage, 
look…ʹ 
A porterʹs cap pulled low over his mismatched eyes, Moody came limping 
through the archway pushing a trolley loaded with their trunks. 
ʹAll OK,ʹ he muttered to Mrs Weasley and Tonks, ʹdonʹt think we were 
followed…ʹ 

Seconds later, Mr Weasley emerged on to the platform with Ron and Hermione. 
They had almost unloaded Moodyʹs luggage trolley when Fred, George and 
Ginny turned up with Lupin. 
ʹNo trouble?ʹ growled Moody. 
ʹNothing,ʹ said Lupin. 
Til still be reporting Sturgis to Dumbledore,ʹ said Moody, ʹthatʹs the second time 
heʹs not turned up in a week. Getting as unreliable as Mundungus.ʹ 
ʹWell, look after yourselves,ʹ said Lupin, shaking hands all round. He reached 
Harry last and gave him a clap on the shoulder. ʹYou too. Harry. Be careful.ʹ 
ʹYeah, keep your head down and your eyes peeled,ʹ said Moody, shaking Harryʹs 
hand too. ʹAnd donʹt forget, all of you ‐ careful what you put in writing. If in 
doubt, donʹt put it in a letter at all.ʹ 
ʹItʹs been great meeting all of you,ʹ said Tonks, hugging Hermione and Ginny 
ʹWeʹll see you soon, I expect.ʹ 
A warning whistle sounded; the students still on the platform started hurrying 
on to the train. 
ʹQuick, quick,ʹ said Mrs Weasley distractedly, hugging them at random and 
catching Harry twice. ʹWrite… be good… if youʹve forgotten anything weʹll send 
it on… on to the train, now, hurry…ʺ 
For one brief moment, the great black dog reared on to its hind legs and placed 
its front paws on Harryʹs shoulders, but Mrs Weasley shoved Harry away 
towards the train door, hissing, ʹFor heavenʹs sake, act more like a dog, Sirius!ʹ 
ʹSee you!ʹ Harry called out of the open window as the train began to move, while 
Ron, Hermione and Ginny waved beside him. The figures of Tonks, Lupin, 
Moody and Mr and Mrs Weasley shrank rapidly but the black dog was bounding 
alongside the window, wagging its tail; blurred people on the platform were 
laughing to see it chasing the train, then they rounded a bend, and Sirius was 
gone. 
ʹHe shouldnʹt have come with us,ʹ said Hermione in a worried voice. 

ʹOh, lighten up,ʹ said Ron, ʹhe hasnʹt seen daylight for months, poor bloke.ʹ 
ʹWell,ʹ said Fred, clapping his hands together, ʹcanʹt stand around chatting all 
day, weʹve got business to discuss with Lee. See you later,ʹ and he and George 
disappeared down the corridor to the right. 
The train was gathering still more speed, so that the houses outside the window 
flashed past, and they swayed where they stood. 
ʹShall we go and find a compartment, then?ʹ Harry asked. 
Ron and Hermione exchanged looks. 
ʹEr,ʹ said Ron. 
ʹWeʹre ‐ well ‐ Ron and I are supposed to go into the prefect carriage,ʹ Hermione 
said awkwardly. 
Ron wasnʹt looking at Harry; he seemed to have become intensely interested in 
the fingernails on his left hand. 
ʹOh,ʹ said Harry. ʹRight. Fine.ʹ 
ʹI donʹt think weʹll have to stay there all journey,ʹ said Hermione quickly. ʹOur 
letters said we just get instructions from the Head Boy and Girl and then patrol 
the corridors from time to time.ʹ 
ʹFine,ʹ said Harry again. ʹWell, I ‐ I might see you later, then.ʹ 
ʹYeah, definitely,ʹ said Ron, casting a shifty, anxious look at Harry. ʹItʹs a pain 
having to go down there, Iʹd rather ‐ but we have to ‐I mean, Iʹm not enjoying it, 
Iʹm not Percy,ʹ he finished defiantly. 
ʹI know youʹre not,ʹ said Harry and he grinned. But as Hermione and Ron 
dragged their trunks, Crookshanks and a caged Pigwidgeon off towards the 
engine end of the train, Harry felt an odd sense of loss. He had never travelled on 
the Hogwarts Express without Ron. 
ʹCome on,ʹ Ginny told him, ʹif we get a move on weʹll be able to save them 
places.ʹ 

ʹRight,ʹ said Harry, picking up Hedwigʹs cage in one hand and the handle of his 
trunk in the other. They struggled off down the corridor, peering through the 
glass‐panelled doors into the compartments they passed, which were already 
full. Harry could not help noticing that a lot of people stared back at him with 
great interest and that several of them nudged their neighbours and pointed him 
out. After he had met this behaviour in five consecutive carriages he 
remembered that the Daily Prophet had been telling its readers all summer what a 
lying show‐off he was. He wondered dully whether the people now staring and 
whispering believed the stories. 
In the very last carriage they met Neville Longbottom, Harryʹs fellow fifth‐year 
Gryffindor, his round face shining with the effort of pulling his trunk along and 
maintaining a one‐handed grip on his struggling toad, Trevor. 
ʹHi, Harryʹ he panted. ʹHi, Ginny… everywhereʹs full… 1 canʹt find a seat…ʹ 
ʹWhat are you talking about?ʹ said Ginny, who had squeezed past Neville to peer 
into the compartment behind him. Thereʹs room in this one, thereʹs only Loony 
Lovegood in here —ʹ 
Neville mumbled something about not wanting to disturb anyone. 
ʹDonʹt be silly,ʹ said Ginny, laughing, ʹsheʹs all right.ʹ 
She slid the door open and pulled her trunk inside. Harry and Neville followed. 
ʹHi, Luna,ʹ said Ginny, ʹis it OK if we take these seats?ʹ 
The girl beside the window looked up. She had straggly, waist‐length, dirty 
blonde hair, very pale eyebrows and protuberant eyes that gave her a 
permanently surprised look. Harry knew at once why Neville had chosen to pass 
this compartment by. The girl gave off an aura of distinct dottiness. Perhaps it 
was the fact that she had stuck her wand behind her left ear for safekeeping, or 
that she had chosen to wear a necklace of Butterbeer corks, or that she was 
reading a magazine upside‐down. Her eyes ranged over Neville and came to rest 
on Harry. She nodded. 
Thanks,ʹ said Ginny, smiling at her. 
Harry and Neville stowed the three trunks and Hedwigʹs cage in the luggage 
rack and sat down. Luna watched them over her upside‐down magazine, which 

was called The Quibbler. She did not seem to need to blink as much as normal 
humans. She stared and stared at Harry, who had taken the seat opposite her 
and now wished he hadnʹt. 
ʹHad a good summer, Luna?ʹ Ginny asked. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Luna dreamily, without taking her eyes off Harry. ʹYes, it was quite 
enjoyable, you know. Youʹre Harry Potter,ʹ she added. 
ʹ1 know I am,ʹ said Harry. 
Neville chuckled. Luna turned her pale eyes on him instead. 
ʹAnd I donʹt know who you are.ʹ 
ʹIʹm nobody,ʹ said Neville hurriedly. 
ʹNo youʹre not,ʹ said Ginny sharply. ʹNeville Longbottom ‐ Luna Love good. 
Lunaʹs in my year, but in Ravenclaw.ʹ 
ʹWit beyond measure is manʹs greatest treasure,ʹ said Luna in a singsong voice. 
She raised her upside‐down magazine high enough to hide her face and fell 
silent. Harry and Neville looked at each other with their eyebrows raised. Ginny 
suppressed a giggle. 
The train rattled onwards, speeding them out into open country. It was an odd, 
unsettled sort of day; one moment the carriage was full of sunlight and the next 
they were passing beneath ominously grey clouds. 
ʹGuess what I got for my birthday?ʹ said Neville. 
ʹAnother Remembrall?ʹ said Harry, remembering the marble‐like device Nevilleʹs 
grandmother had sent him in an effort to improve his abysmal memory. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Neville. ʹI could do with one, though, 1 lost the old one ages ago… no, 
look at this…ʺ 
He dug the hand that was not keeping a firm grip on Trevor into his schoolbag 
and after a little bit of rummaging pulled out what appeared to be a small grey 

cactus in a pot, except that it was covered with what looked like boils rather than 
spines. 
ʹMimbulus mimbletonia,ʹ he said proudly. 
Harry stared at the thing. It was pulsating slightly, giving it the rather sinister 
look of some diseased internal organ. 
ʹItʹs really, really rare,ʹ said Neville, beaming. ʹI donʹt know it thereʹs one in the 
greenhouse at Hogwarts, even. 1 canʹt wait to show it to Professor Sprout. My 
Great Uncle Algie got it for me in Assyria. Iʹm going to see if I can breed from it.ʹ 
Harry knew that Nevilleʹs favourite subject was Herbology but for the life of him 
he could not see what he would want with this stunted little plant. 
ʹDoes it ‐ er ‐ do anything?ʹ he asked. 
ʹLoads of stuff!ʹ said Neville proudly. ʹItʹs got an amazing defensive mechanism. 
Here, hold Trevor for me…ʹ 
He dumped the toad into Harryʹs lap and took a quill from his schoolbag. Luna 
Lovegoodʹs popping eyes appeared over the top of her upside‐down magazine 
again, to watch what Neville was doing. Neville held the Mimbulus mimbletonia 
up to his eyes, his tongue between his teeth, chose his spot, and gave the plant a 
sharp prod with the tip of his quill. 
Liquid squirted from every boil on the plant; thick, stinking, dark green jets of it. 
They hit the ceiling, the windows, and spattered Luna Lovegoodʹs magazine; 
Ginny, who had flung her arms up in front of her face just in time, merely looked 
as though she was wearing a slimy green hat, but Harry, whose hands had been 
busy preventing Trevorʹs escape, received a faceful. It smelled like rancid 
manure. 
Neville, whose face and torso were also drenched, shook his head to get the 
worst out of his eyes. 
ʹS ‐ sorry,ʹ he gasped. ʹI havenʹt tried that before… didnʹt realise it would be quite 
so… donʹt worry, though, Stinksapʹs not poisonous,ʹ he added nervously, as 
Harry spat a mouthful on to the floor. 
At that precise moment the door of their compartment slid open. 

ʹOh… hello, Harry,ʹ said a nervous voice. ʹUrn… bad time?ʹ 
Harry wiped the lenses of his glasses with his Trevor‐free hand. A very pretty 
girl with long, shiny black hair was standing in the doorway smiling at him: Cho 
Chang, the Seeker on the Ravenclaw Quidditch team. 
ʹOh… hi,ʹ said Harry blankly. 
ʹUrn…ʺ said Cho. ʹWell… just thought Iʹd say hello… bye then.ʹ 
Rather pink in the face, she closed the door and departed. Harry slumped back in 
his seat and groaned. He would have liked Cho to discover him sitting with a 
group of very cool people laughing their heads off at a joke he had just told; he 
would not have chosen to be sitting with Neville and Loony Lovegood, clutching 
a toad and dripping in Stinksap. 
ʹNever mind,ʹ said Ginny bracingly. ʹLook, we can easily get rid of all this.ʹ She 
pulled out her wand. ʹScourgify!ʹ 
The Stinksap vanished. 
ʹSorry,ʹ said Neville again, in a small voice. 
Ron and Hermione did not turn up for nearly an hour, by which time the food 
trolley had already gone by. Harry, Ginny and Neville had finished their 
pumpkin pasties and were busy swapping Chocolate Frog Cards when the 
compartment door slid open and they walked in, accompanied by Crookshanks 
and a shrilly hooting Pigwidgeon in his cage. 
ʹIʹm starving,ʹ said Ron, stowing Pigwidgeon next to Hedwig, grabbing a 
Chocolate Frog from Harry and throwing himself into the seat next to him. He 
ripped open the wrapper, bit off the frogʹs head and leaned back with his eyes 
closed as though he had had a very exhausting morning. 
ʹWell, there are two fifth‐year prefects from each house,ʹ said Hermione, looking 
thoroughly disgruntled as she took her seat. ʹBoy and girl from each.ʹ 
ʹAnd guess whoʹs a Slytherin prefect?ʹ said Ron, still with his eyes closed. 
ʹMalfoy,ʹ replied Harry at once, certain his worst fear would be confirmed. 

ʹCourse,ʹ said Ron bitterly, stuffing the rest of the Frog into his mouth and taking 
another. 
ʹAnd that complete cow Pansy Parkinson,ʹ said Hermione viciously. ʹHow she got 
to be a prefect when sheʹs thicker than a concussed troll…ʹ 
ʹWho are Hufflepuffʹs?ʹ Harry asked. 
ʹErnie Macmillan and Hannah Abbott,ʹ said Ron thickly. 
ʹAnd Anthony Goldstein and Padma Patil for Ravenclaw,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹYou went to the Yule Ball with Padma Patil,ʹ said a vague voice. 
Everyone turned to look at Luna Lovegood, who was gazing unblinkingly at Ron 
over the top of The Quibbler. He swallowed his mouthful of Frog. 
ʹYeah, I know I did,ʹ he said, looking mildly surprised. 
ʹShe didnʹt enjoy it very much,ʹ Luna informed him. ʹShe doesnʹt think you 
treated her very well, because you wouldnʹt dance with her. I donʹt think Iʹd have 
minded,ʹ she added thoughtfully, ʹ1 donʹt like dancing very much.ʹ 
She retreated behind The Quibbler again. Ron stared at the cover with his mouth 
hanging open for a few seconds, then looked around at Ginny for some kind of 
explanation, but Ginny had stuffed her knuckles in her mouth to stop herself 
giggling. Ron shook his head, bemused, then checked his watch. 
ʹWeʹre supposed to patrol the corridors every so often,ʹ he told Harry and 
Neville, ʹand we can give out punishments if people are misbehaving. I canʹt wait 
to get Crabbe and Goyle for something 
ʹYouʹre not supposed to abuse your position, Ron!ʹ said Hermione sharply. 
ʹYeah, right, because Malfoy wonʹt abuse it at all,ʹ said Ron sarcastically. 
ʹSo youʹre going to descend to his level?ʹ 
ʹNo, Iʹm just going to make sure I get his mates before he gets mine.ʹ 
ʹFor heavenʹs sake, Ron ‐ʹ 

Til make Goyle do lines, itʹll kill him, he hates writing,ʹ said Ron happily. He 
lowered his voice to Goyleʹs low grunt and, screwing up his face in a look of 
pained concentration, mimed writing in midair. ʹI… must… not… look…like… a… 
baboonʹs… backside.ʹ 
Everyone laughed, but nobody laughed harder than Luna Lovegood. She let out 
a scream of mirth that caused Hedwig to wake up and flap her wings 
indignantly and Crookshanks to leap up into the luggage rack, hissing. Luna 
laughed so hard her magazine slipped out of her grasp, slid down her legs and 
on to the floor. 
That was funny!ʹ 
Her prominent eyes swam with tears as she gasped for breath, staring at Ron. 
Utterly nonplussed, he looked around at the others, who were now laughing at 
the expression on Ronʹs face and at the ludicrously prolonged laughter of Luna 
Lovegood, who was rocking backwards and forwards, clutching her sides. 
ʹAre you taking the mickey?ʹ said Ron, frowning at her. 
ʹBaboonʹs… backside!ʹ she choked, holding her ribs. 
Everyone else was watching Luna laughing, but Harry glancing at the magazine 
on the floor, noticed something that made him dive for it. Upside‐down it had 
been hard to tell what the picture on the front was, but Harry now realised it was 
a fairly bad cartoon of Cornelius Fudge; Harry only recognised him because of 
the lime‐green bowler hat. One of Fudgeʹs hands was clenched around a bag of 
gold; the other hand was throttling a goblin. The cartoon was captioned: How 
Far Will Fudge Go to Gain Gringotts? 
Beneath this were listed the titles of other articles inside the magazine. 
Corruption in the Quidditch League:
How the Tornados are Taking Control
Secrets of the Ancient Runes Revealed
Sirius Black: Villain or Victim?
ʹCan I have a look at this?ʹ Harry asked Luna eagerly. 

She nodded, still gazing at Ron, breathless with laughter. 
Harry opened the magazine and scanned the index. Until this moment he had 
completely forgotten the magazine Kingsley had handed Mr Weasley to give to 
Sirius, but it must have been this edition of The Quibbler. 
He found the page, and turned excitedly to the article. 
This, too, was illustrated by a rather bad cartoon; in fact, Harry would not have 
known it was supposed to be Sirius if it hadnʹt been captioned. Sirius was 
standing on a pile of human bones with his wand out. The headline on the article 
said: 
SIRIUS ‐ BLACK AS HEʹS PAINTED? 
Notorious mass murderer or innocent singing sensation? 
Harry had to read this first sentence several times before he was convinced that 
he had not misunderstood it. Since when had Sirius been a singing sensation? 
For fourteen years Sirius Black has been believed guilty of the mass murder of twelve 
innocent Muggles and one wizard. Blackʹs audacious escape from Azkaban two years ago 
has led to the widest manhunt ever conducted by the Ministry of Magic. None of us has 
ever questioned that he deserves to be recaptured and handed back to the Dementors. 
BUT DOES HE?
Startling new evidence has recently come to light that Sirius
Black may not have committed the crimes for which he was sent to Azkaban. In fact, says 
Doris Purkiss, of 18 Acanthia Way, Little Norton, Black may not even have been present 
at the killings.
ʹWhat people donʹt realise is that Sirius Black is a false name,ʹ says Mrs Purkiss. ʹThe 
man people believe to be Sirius Black is actually Stubby Boardman, lead singer of popular 
singing group The Hobgoblins, who retired from public life after being struck on the ear 
by a turnip at a concert in Little Norton Church Hall nearly fifteen years ago. I 
recognised him the moment I saw his picture in the paper. Now, Stubby couldnʹt possibly 
have committed those crimes, because on the day in question he happened to be enjoying a 
romantic candlelit dinner with me. I have written to the Minister for Magic and am 
expecting him to give Stubby, alias ‐Sirius, a full pardon any day now.ʹ 

Harry finished reading and stared at the page in disbelief. Perhaps it was a joke, 
he thought, perhaps the magazine often printed spoof Hems. He flicked back a 
few pages and found the piece on Fudge. 
Cornelius Fudge, the Minister for Magic, denied that he had any plans to take over the 
running of the Wizarding Bank, Gringotts, when he was elected Minister for Magic five 
years ago. Fudge has always insisted that he wants nothing more than to ʹco‐operate 
peacefullyʹ with the guardians of our gold.
BUT DOES HE?
Sources close to the Minister have recently disclosed that Fudgeʹs dearest ambition is to 
seize control of the goblin gold supplies and that he will not hesitate to use force if need 
be.
Tt wouldnʹt be the first time, either,ʹ said a Ministry insider. ʹCornelius ʺGoblin‐
Crusherʺ Fudge, thatʹs what his friends call him. If you could hear him when he thinks 
no oneʹs listening, oh, heʹs always talking about the goblins heʹs had done in; heʹs had 
them drowned, heʹs had them dropped off buildings, heʹs had them poisoned, heʹs had 
them cooked in pies…ʺ
Harry did not read any further. Fudge might have many faults but Harry found 
it extremely hard to imagine him ordering goblins to be cooked in pies. He 
flicked through the rest of the magazine. Pausing every few pages, he read: an 
accusation that the Tutshill Tornados were winning the Quidditch League by a 
combination of blackmail, illegal broom‐tampering and torture; an interview 
with a wizard who claimed to have flown to the moon on a Cleansweep Six and 
brought back a bag of moon frogs to prove it; and an article on ancient runes 
which at least explained why Luna had been reading The Quibbler upside‐down. 
According to the magazine, if you turned the runes on their heads they revealed 
a spell to make your enemyʹs ears turn into kumquats. In fact, compared to 
the^rest of the articles in The Quibbler, the suggestion that Sirius might really be 
the lead singer of The Hobgoblins was quite sensible. 
ʹAnything good in there?ʹ asked Ron as Harry closed the magazine. 
ʹOf course not,ʹ said Hermione scathingly, before Harry could answer. The 
Quibblerʹs rubbish, everyone knows that.ʹ 
ʹExcuse me,ʹ said Luna; her voice had suddenly lost its dreamy quality. ʹMy 
fatherʹs the editor.ʹ 

ʹI ‐ oh,ʹ said Hermione, looking embarrassed. ʹWell… itʹs got some interesting… 1 
mean, itʹs quite…ʺ 
ʹIʹll have it back, thank you,ʹ said Luna coldly, and leaning forwards she snatched 
it out of Harryʹs hands. Riffling through it to page fifty‐seven, she turned it 
resolutely upside‐down again and disappeared behind it, just as the 
compartment door opened for the third time. 
Harry looked around; he had expected this, but that did not make the sight of 
Draco Malfoy smirking at him from between his cronies Crabbe and Goyle any 
more enjoyable‐. 
ʹWhat?ʹ he said aggressively, before Malfoy could open his mouth. 
ʹManners, Potter, or Iʹll have to give you a detention,ʹ drawled Malfoy, whose 
sleek blond hair and pointed chin were just like his fathers. ʹYou see, 1, unlike 
you, have been made a prefect, which means that I, unlike you, have the power 
to hand out punishments.ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, ʹbut you, unlike me,‐are a git, so get out and leave us alone.ʹ 
Ron, Hermione, Ginny and Neville laughed. Malfoyʹs lip curled. 
ʹTell me, how does it feel being second‐best to Weasley, Potter?ʹ he asked. 
ʹShut up, Malfoy,ʹ said Hermione sharply. 
ʹI seem to have touched a nerve,ʹ said Malfoy, smirking. ʹWell, just watch 
yourself, Potter, because Iʹll be dogging your footsteps in case you step out of 
line.ʹ 
ʹGet out!ʹ said Hermione, standing up. 
Sniggering, Malfoy gave Harry a last malicious look and departed, with Crabbe 
and Goyle lumbering along in his wake. Hermione slammed the compartment 
door behind them and turned to look at Harry, who knew at once that she, like 
him, had registered what Malfoy had said and been just as unnerved by it. 
ʹChuck us another Frog,ʹ said Ron, who had clearly noticed nothing. 

Harry could not talk freely in front of Neville and Luna. He exchanged another 
nervous look with Hermione, then stared out of the window. 
He had thought Sirius coming with him to the station was a bit of a laugh, but 
suddenly it seemed reckless, if not downright dangerous… Hermione had been 
right… Sirius should not have come. What if Mr Malfoy had noticed the black 
dog and told Draco? What if he had deduced that the Weasleys, Lupin, Tonks 
and Moody knew where Sirius was hiding? Or had Malfoyʹs use of the word 
ʹdoggingʹ been a coincidence? 
The weather remained undecided as they travelled further and further north. 
Rain spattered the windows in a half‐hearted way, then the sun put in a feeble 
appearance before clouds drifted over it once more. When darkness fell and 
lamps came on inside the carriages, Luna rolled up The Quibbler, put it carefully 
away in her bag and took to staring at everyone in the compartment instead. 
Harry was sitting with his forehead pressed against the train window, trying to 
get a first distant glimpse of Hogwarts, but it was a moonless night and the rain‐
streaked window was grimy. 
ʹWeʹd better change,ʹ said Hermione at last, and all of them opened their trunks 
with difficulty and pulled on their school robes. She and Ron pinned their prefect 
badges carefully to their chests. Harry saw Ron checking his reflection in the 
black window. 
At last, the train began to slow down and they heard the usual racket up and 
down it as everybody scrambled to get their luggage and pets assembled, ready 
to get off. As Ron and Hermione were supposed to supervise all this, they 
disappeared from the carriage again, leaving Harry and the others to look after 
Crookshanks and Pigwidgeon. 
Til carry that owl, if you like,ʹ said Luna to Harry, reaching out for Pigwidgeon 
as Neville stowed Trevor carefully in an inside pocket. 
ʹOh ‐ er ‐ thanks,ʹ said Harry, handing her the cage and hoisting Hedwigʹs more 
securely into his arms. 
They shuffled out of the compartment feeling the first sting of the night air on 
their faces as they joined the crowd in the corridor. Slowly, they moved towards 
the doors. Harry could smell the pine trees that lined the path down to the lake. 

He stepped down on to the platform and looked around, listening for the 
familiar call of ʹfirsʹ‐years over ʹere… firsʹ‐years…ʹ 
But it did not come. Instead, a quite different voice, a brisk female one, was 
calling out, ʺFirst‐years line up over here, please! All first‐years to me!ʹ 
A lantern came swinging towards Harry and by its light he saw the prominent 
chin and severe haircut of Professor Grubbly‐Plank, the witch who had taken 
over Hagridʹs Care of Magical Creatures lessons for a while the previous year. 
ʹWhereʹs Hagrid?ʹ he said out loud. 
ʹI donʹt know,ʹ said Ginny, ʹbut weʹd better get out of the way, weʹre blocking the 
door.ʹ 
ʹOh, yeah…ʹ 
Harry and Ginny became separated as they moved off along the platform and 
out through the station. Jostled by the crowd, Harry squinted through the 
darkness for a glimpse of Hagrid; he had to be here, Harry had been relying on it 
‐ seeing Hagrid again was one of the things heʹd been looking forward to most. 
But there was no sign of him. 
He canʹt have left, Harry told himself as he shuffled slowly through a narrow 
doorway on to the road outside with the rest of the crowd. Heʹs just got a cold or 
something… 
He looked around for Ron or Hermione, wanting to know what they thought 
about the reappearance of Professor Grubbly‐Plank, but neither of them was 
anywhere near him, so he allowed himself to be shunted forwards on to the dark 
rain‐washed road outside Hogsmeade Station. 
Here stood the hundred or so horseless stagecoaches that always took the 
students above first year up to the castle. Harry glanced quickly at them, turned 
away to keep a lookout for Ron and Hermione, then did a double‐take. 
The coaches were no longer horseless. There were creatures standing between 
the carriage shafts. If he had had to give them a name, he supposed he would 
have called them horses, though there was something reptilian about them, too. 
They were completely fleshless, their black coats clinging to their skeletons, of 
which every bone was visible. Their heads were dragonish, and their pupil‐less 

eyes white and staring. Wings sprouted from each wither ‐ vast, black leathery 
wings that looked as though they ought to belong to giant bats. Standing still and 
quiet in the gathering gloom, the creatures looked eerie and sinister. Harry could 
not understand why the coaches were being pulled by these horrible horses 
when they were quite capable of moving along by themselves. 
ʹWhereʹs Pig?ʹ said Ronʹs voice, right behind Harry. 
ʹThat Luna girl was carrying him,ʹ said Harry, turning quickly, eager to consult 
Ron about Hagrid. ʹWhere dʹyou reckon ‐ʹ 
ʹ‐ Hagrid is? I dunno,ʹ said Ron, sounding worried. ʹHeʹd better be OK…ʹ 
A short distance away, Draco Malfoy, followed by a small gang of cronies 
including Crabbe, Goyle and Pansy Parkinson, was pushing some timid‐looking 
second‐years out of the way so that he and his friends could get a coach to 
themselves. Seconds later, Hermione emerged panting from the crowd. 
ʹMalfoy was being absolutely foul to a first‐year back there. I swear Iʹm going to 
report him, heʹs only had his badge three minutes and heʹs using it to bully 
people worse than ever… whereʹs Crookshanks?ʹ 
ʹGinnyʹs got him,ʹ said Harry. There she is…ʹ 
Ginny had just emerged from the crowd, clutching a squirming Crookshanks. 
Thanks,ʹ said Hermione, relieving Ginny of the cat. ʹCome on, letʹs get a carriage 
together before they all fill up…ʺ 
ʹI havenʹt got Pig yet!ʹ Ron said, but Hermione was already heading off towards 
the nearest unoccupied coach. Harry remained behind with Ron. 
ʹWhat are those things, dʹyou reckon?ʹ he asked Ron, nodding at the horrible 
horses as the other students surged past them. 
ʹWhat things?ʹ 
Those horse ‐ʹ 
Luna appeared holding Pigwidgeonʹs cage in her arms; the tiny owl was 
twittering excitedly as usual. 

ʹHere you are,ʹ she said. ʹHeʹs a sweet little owl, isnʹt he?ʹ 
ʹEr… yeah… heʹs all right,ʹ said Ron gruffly. ʹWell, come on then, letʹs get in… 
what were you saying, Harry?ʹ 
ʹI was saying, what are those horse things?ʹ Harry said, as he, Ron and Luna 
made for the carriage in which Hermione and Ginny were already sitting. 
ʹWhat horse things?ʹ 
The horse things pulling the carriages!ʹ said Harry impatiently. They were, after 
all, about three feet from the nearest one; it was watching them with empty white 
eyes. Ron, however, gave Harry a perplexed look. 
ʹWhat are you talking about?ʹ 
ʹIʹm talking about ‐ look!ʹ 
Harry grabbed Ronʹs arm and wheeled him about so that he was face to face with 
the winged horse. Ron stared straight at it for a second, then looked back at 
Harry. 
ʹWhat am I supposed to be looking at?ʹ 
ʹAt the ‐ there, between the shafts! Harnessed to the coach! Itʹs right there in front 
‐ʹ 
But as Ron continued to look bemused, a strange thought occurred to Harry. 
ʹCanʹt… canʹt you see them?ʹ 
ʹSee what?ʹ 
ʹCanʹt you see whatʹs pulling the carriages?ʹ 
Ron looked seriously alarmed now. 
ʹAre you feeling all right, Harry?ʹ 
ʹI… yeah…ʹ 

Harry felt utterly bewildered. The horse was there in front of him, gleaming 
solidly in the dim light issuing from the station windows behind them, vapour 
rising from its nostrils in the chilly night air. Yet, unless Ron was faking ‐ and it 
was a very feeble joke if he was ‐ Ron could not see it at all. 
ʹShall we get in, then?ʹ said Ron uncertainly, looking at Harry as though worried 
about him. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry. ʹYeah, go on…ʹ 
ʹItʹs all right,ʹ said a dreamy voice from beside Harry as Ron vanished into the 
coachʹs dark interior. ʹYouʹre not going mad or anything. I can see them, too.ʹ 
ʹCan you?ʹ said Harry desperately, turning to Luna. He could see the bat‐winged 
horses reflected in her wide silvery eyes. 
ʹOh, yes,ʹ said Luna, ʹIʹve been able to see them ever since my first day here. 
Theyʹve always pulled the carriages. Donʹt worry. Youʹre just as sane as I am: 
Smiling faintly, she climbed into the musty interior of the carriage after Ron. Not 
altogether reassured, Harry followed her. 
— CHAPTER ELEVEN — 
The Sorting Hatʹs New Song 
Harry did not want to tell the others that he and Luna were having the same 
hallucination, if that was what it was, so he said nothing more about the horses 
as he sal down inside the carriage and slammed the door behind him. 
Nevertheless, he could not help watching the silhouettes of the horses moving 
beyond the window. 
ʹDid everyone see that Grubbly‐Plank woman?ʹ asked Ginny. ʹWhatʹs she doing 
back here? Hagrid canʹt have left, can he?ʹ 
Til be quite glad if he has,ʹ said Luna, ʹhe isnʹt a very good teacher, is he?ʹ 
ʹYes, he is!ʹ said Harry, Ron and Ginny angrily. 
Harry glared at Hermione. She cleared her throat and quickly said, ʹErin… yes… 
heʹs very good.ʹ 

ʹWell, we in Ravenclaw think heʹs a bit of a joke,ʹ said Luna, unlazed. 
ʹYouʹve got a rubbish sense of humour then,ʹ Ron snapped, as the wheels below 
them creaked into motion. 
Luna did not seem perturbed by Ronʹs rudeness; on the contrary, she simply 
watched him for a while as though he were a mildly interesting television 
programme. 
Rattling and swaying, the carriages moved in convoy up the road. When they 
passed between the tall stone pillars topped with winged boars on either side of 
the gates to the school grounds, Harry leaned forwards to try and see whether 
there were any lights on in Hagridʹs cabin by the Forbidden Forest, but the 
grounds were in complete darkness. Hogwarts Castle, however, loomed ever 
closer: a towering mass of turrets, jet black against the dark sky, here and there a 
window blazing fiery bright above them. 
The carriages jingled to a halt near the stone steps leading up to the oak front 
doors and Harry got out of the carriage first. He turned again to look for lit 
windows down by the Forest, but there was definitely no sign of life within 
Hagrids cabin. Unwillingly, because he had half‐hoped they would have 
vanished, he turned his eyes instead upon the strange, skeletal creatures 
standing quietly in the chill night air, their blank white eyes gleaming. 
Harry had once before had the experience of seeing something that Ron could 
not, but that had been a reflection in a mirror, something much more 
insubstantial than a hundred very solid‐looking beasts strong enough to pull a 
fleet of carriages. If Luna was to be believed, the beasts had always been there 
but invisible. Why, then, could Harry suddenly see them, and why could Ron 
not? 
ʹAre you coming or what?ʹ said Ron beside him. 
ʹOh… yeah,ʹ said Harry quickly and they joined the crowd hurrying up the stone 
steps into the castle. 
The Entrance Hall was ablaze with torches and echoing with footsteps as the 
students crossed the flagged stone floor for the double doors to the right, leading 
to the Great Hall and the start‐of‐term feast. 

The four long house tables in the Great Hall were filling up under the starless 
black ceiling, which was just like the sky they could glimpse through the high 
windows. Candles floated in midair all along the tables, illuminating the silvery 
ghosts who were dotted about the Hall and the faces of the students talking 
eagerly, exchanging summer news, shouting greetings at friends from other 
houses, eyeing one anotherʹs new haircuts and robes. Again, Harry noticed 
people putting their heads together to whisper as he passed; he gritted his teeth 
and tried to act as though he neither noticed nor cared. 
Luna drifted away from them at the Ravenclaw table. The moment they reached 
Gryffindors, Ginny was hailed by some fellow fourth‐years and left to sit with 
them; Harry, Ron, Hermione and Neville found seats together about halfway 
down the table between Nearly 
Headless Nick, the Gryffindor house ghost, and Parvati Patil and Lavender 
Brown, the last two of whom gave Harry airy, overly‐friendly greetings that 
made him quite sure they had stopped talking about him a split second before. 
He had more important things to worry about, however: he was looking over the 
studentsʹ heads to the staff table that ran along the top wall of the Hall. 
ʹHeʹs not there.ʹ 
Ron and Hermione scanned the staff table too, though there was no real need; 
Hagridʹs size made him instantly obvious in any lineup. 
ʹHe canʹt have left,ʹ said Ron, sounding slightly anxious. 
ʹOf course he hasnʹt,ʹ said Harry firmly. 
ʹYou donʹt think heʹs… hurt, or anything, do you?ʹ said Hermione uneasily. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry at once. 
ʹBut where is he, then?ʹ 
There was a pause, then Harry said very quietly, so that Neville, Parvati and 
Lavender could not hear, ʹMaybe heʹs not back yet. You know ‐ from his mission 
‐ the thing he was doing over the summer for Dumbledore.ʹ 

ʹYeah… yeah, thatʹll be it,ʹ said Ron, sounding reassured, but Hermione bit her 
lip, looking up and down the staff table as though hoping for some conclusive 
explanation of Hagridʹs absence. 
ʹWhoʹs that?ʹ she said sharply, pointing towards the middle of the staff table. 
Harryʹs eyes followed hers. They lit first upon Professor Dumbledore, sitting in 
his high‐backed golden chair at the centre of the long staff table, wearing deep‐
purple robes scattered with silvery stars and a matching hat. Dumbledoreʹs head 
was inclined towards the woman sitting next to him, who was talking into his 
ear. She looked, Harry thought, like somebodyʹs maiden aunt: squat, with short, 
curly, mouse‐brown hair in which she had placed a horrible pink Alice band that 
matched the fluffy pink cardigan she wore over her robes. Then she turned her 
face slightly to take a sip from her goblet and he saw, with a shock of 
recognition, a pallid, toadlike face and a pair of prominent, pouchy eyes. 
ʹItʹs that Umbridge woman!ʹ 
ʹWho?ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹShe was at my hearing, she works for Fudge!ʹ 
ʹNice cardigan,ʹ said Ron, smirking. 
ʹShe works for Fudge!ʹ Hermione repeated, frowning. ʹWhat on earthʹs she doing 
here, then?ʹ 
ʹDunno…ʹ 
Hermione scanned the staff table, her eyes narrowed. 
ʹNo,ʹ she muttered, ʹno, surely not…ʹ 
Harry did not understand what she was talking about but did not ask; his 
attention had been caught by Professor Grubbly‐Plank who had just appeared 
behind the staff table; she worked her way along to the very end and took the 
seat that ought to have been Hagrids. That meant the first‐years must have 
crossed the lake and reached the castle, and sure enough, a few seconds later, the 
doors from the Entrance Hall opened. A long line of scared‐looking first‐years 
entered, led by Professor McGonagall, who was carrying a stool on which sat an 

ancient wizardʹs hat, heavily patched and darned with a wide rip near the frayed 
brim. 
The buzz of talk in the Great Hall faded away. The first‐years lined up in front of 
the staff table facing the rest of the students, and Professor McGonagall placed 
the stool carefully in front of them, then stood back. 
The first‐yearsʹ faces glowed palely in the candlelight. A small boy right in the 
middle of the row looked as though he was trembling. Harry recalled, fleetingly, 
how terrified he had felt when he had stood there, waiting for the unknown test 
that would determine to which house he belonged. 
The whole school waited with bated breath. Then the rip near the hatʹs brim 
opened wide like a mouth and the Sorting Hat burst into song: 
In times of old when I was new And Hogwarts barely started The founders of our noble 
school Thought never to be parted: United by a common goal,
They had the selfsame yearning,
To make the worldʹs best magic school
And pass along their learning.
ʹTogether we will build and teach!ʹ
The four good friends decided
And never did they dream that they
Might some day be divided,
For were there such friends anywhere
As Slytherin and Gryffindor?
Unless it was the second pair
Of Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw?
So how could it have gone so wrong?

How could such friendships fail?
Why, I was there and so can tell
The whole sad, sorry tale.
Said Slytherin, ʹWeʹll teach just those
Whose ancestry is purest.ʹ
Said Ravenclaw, ʹWeʹll teach those whose
Intelligence is surest.ʹ
Said Gryffindor, ʹWeʹll teach all those
With brave deeds to their name,ʹ
Said Hufflepuff, Til teach the lot,
And treat them just the same.ʹ
These differences caused little strife
When first they came to light,
For each of the four founders had
A house in which they might
Take only those they wanted, so,
For instance, Slytherin
Took only pure‐blood wizards
Of great cunning, just like him,
And only those of sharpest mind
Were taught by Ravenclaw

While the bravest and the boldest
Went to daring Gryffindor.
Good Hufflepuff, she took the rest,
And taught them all she knew,
Thus the houses and their founders
Retained friendships firm and true. 
So Hogwarts worked in harmony
For several happy years,
But then discord crept among us 
Feeding on our faults and fears.
The houses that, like pillars four, 
Had once held up our school,
Now turned upon each other and,
Divided, sought to rule.
And for a while it seemed the school
Must meet an early end,
What with duelling and with jighting
And the clash of friend on friend
And at last there came a morning 
When old Slytherin departed
And though the fighting then died out

He left us quite downhearted.
And never since the founders four
Were whittled down to three
Have the houses been united 
As they once were meant to be. 
And now the Sorting Hat is here 
And you all know the score:
I sort you into houses 
Because that is what Iʹm for, 
But this year Iʹll go further,
Listen closely to my song:
Though condemned I am to split you
Still I worry that itʹs wrong, 
Though / must fulfil my duty
And must quarter everv year 
Still I wonder whether Sorting
May not bring the end I fear.
Oh, know the perils, read the signs,
The warning history shows,
For our Hogwarts is in danger
From external, deadly foes

And we must unite inside her
Or weʹll crumble from within
I have told you, I have warned you…
Let the Sorting now begin.
The Hat became motionless once more; applause broke out, though it was 
punctured, for the first time in Harrys memory, with muttering and whispers. 
All across the Great Hall students were exchanging remarks with their 
neighbours, and Harry, clapping along with everyone else, knew exactly what 
they were talking about. 
ʹBranched out a bit this year, hasnʹt it?ʹ said Ron, his eyebrows raised. 
Too right it has,ʹ said Harry. 
The Sorting Hat usually confined itself to describing the different qualities 
looked for by each of the four Hogwarts houses and its own role in Sorting them. 
Harry could not remember it ever trying to give the school advice before. 
ʹI wonder if itʹs ever given warnings before?ʹ said Hermione, sounding slightly 
anxious. 
ʹYes, indeed,ʹ said Nearly Headless Nick knowledgeably, leaning across Neville 
towards her (Neville winced; it was very uncomfortable to have a ghost lean 
through you). The Hat feels itself honour‐bound to give the school due warning 
whenever il feels ‐ 
But Professor McGonagall, who was waiting to read out the list of first‐yearsʹ 
names, was giving the whispering students the sort of look that scorches. Nearly 
Headless Nick placed a see‐through finger to his lips and sat primly upright 
again as the muttering came to an abrupt end. With a last frowning look that 
swept the four house tables, Professor McGonagall lowered her eyes to her long 
piece of parchment and called out the first name. 
ʹAbercrombie, Euan.ʹ 
The terrified‐looking boy Harry had noticed earlier stumbled forwards and put 
the Hat on his head; it was only prevented from falling right down to his 

shoulders by his very prominent ears. The Hat considered for a moment, then 
the rip near the brim opened again and shouted: 
ʹGryffindor!ʹ
Harry clapped loudly with the rest of Gryffindor house as Euan Abercrombie 
staggered to their table and sat down, looking as though he would like very 
much to sink through the floor and never be looked at again. 
Slowly, the long line of first‐years thinned. In the pauses between the names and 
the Sorting Hatʹs decisions, Harry could hear Rons stomach rumbling loudly. 
Finally, ʹZeller, Roseʹ was Sorted into Hufflepuff, and Professor McGonagall 
picked up the Hat and stool and marched them away as Professor Dumbledore 
rose to his feet. 
Whatever his recent bitter feelings had been towards his Headmaster, Harry was 
somehow soothed to see Dumbledore standing before them all. Between the 
absence of Hagrid and the presence of those dragonish horses, he had felt that 
his return to Hogwarts, so long anticipated, was full of unexpected surprises, like 
jarring notes in a familiar song. But this, at least, was how it was supposed to be: 
their Headmaster rising to greet them all before the start‐of‐term feast. 
To our newcomers,ʹ said Dumbledore in a ringing voice, his arms stretched wide 
and a beaming smile on his lips, ʹwelcome! To our old hands ‐ welcome back! 
There is a time for speech‐making, but this is not it. Tuck in!ʹ 
There was an appreciative laugh and an outbreak of applause as Dumbledore sat 
down neatly and threw his long beard over his shoulder so as to keep it out of 
the way of his plate ‐ for food had appeared out of nowhere, so that the five long 
tables were groaning under joints and pies and dishes of vegetables, bread and 
sauces and flagons of pumpkin juice. 
ʹExcellent,ʹ said Ron, with a kind of groan of longing, and he seized the nearest 
plate of chops and began piling them on to his plate, watched wistfully by 
Nearly Headless Nick. 
ʹWhat were you saying before the Sorting?ʹ Hermione asked the ghost. ʹAbout the 
Hat giving warnings?ʹ 
ʹOh, yes,ʹ said Nick, who seemed glad of a reason to turn away from Ron, who 
was now eating roast potatoes with almost indecent enthusiasm. ʹYes, I have 

heard the Hat give several warnings before, always at times when it detects 
periods of great danger for the school. And always, of course, its advice is the 
same: stand together, be strong from within.ʹ 
ʹOw kunnit nofe skusin danger ifzat?ʹ said Ron. 
His mouth was so full Harry thought it was quite an achievement for him to 
make any noise at all. 
ʹI beg your pardon?ʹ said Nearly Headless Nick politely, while Hermione looked 
revolted. Ron gave an enormous swallow and said, ʹHow can it know if the 
schoolʹs in danger if itʹs a Hat?ʹ 
ʹI have no idea,ʹ said Nearly Headless Nick. ʹOf course, it lives in Dumbledoreʹs 
office, so I daresay it picks things up there.ʹ 
ʹAnd it wants all the houses to be friends?ʹ said Harry, looking over at the 
Slytherin table, where Draco Malfoy was holding court. ʹFat chance.ʹ 
ʹWell, now, you shouldnʹt take that attitude,ʹ said Nick reprovingly. ʹPeaceful co‐
operation, thatʹs the key. We ghosts, though we belong to separate houses, 
maintain links of friendship. In spite of the competitiveness between Gryffindor 
and Slytherin, 1 would never dream of seeking an argument with the Bloody 
Baron.ʹ 
ʹOnly because youʹre terrified of him,ʹ said Ron. 
Nearly Headless Nick looked highly affronted. 
Terrified? I hope I, Sir Nicholas de Mimsy‐Porpington, have never been guilty of 
cowardice in my life! The noble blood that runs in my veins ‐ʹ 
ʹWhat blood?ʹ asked Ron. ʹSurely you havenʹt still got ‐?ʹ 
ʹIts a figure of speech!ʹ said Nearly Headless Nick, now so annoyed his head was 
trembling ominously on his partially severed neck. ʹI assume I am still allowed to 
enjoy the use of whichever words I like, even if the pleasures of eating and 
drinking are denied me! But I am quite used to students poking fun at my death, 
I assure you!ʹ 

ʹNick, he wasnʹt really laughing at you!ʹ said Hermione, throwing a furious look 
at Ron. 
Unfortunately, Ronʹs mouth was packed to exploding point again and all he 
could manage was ʹNode iddum eentup sechew,ʹ which Nick did not seem to 
think constituted an adequate apology. Rising into the air, he straightened his 
feathered hat and swept away from them to the other end of the table, coming to 
rest between the Creevey brothers, Colin and Dennis. 
ʹWell done, Ron,ʹ snapped Hermione. 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Ron indignantly, having managed, finally, to swallow his tood. ʹIʹm 
not allowed to ask a simple question?ʹ 
ʹOh, forget it,ʹ said Hermione irritably, and the pair of them spent the rest of the 
meal in huffy silence. 
Harry was too used to their bickering to bother trying to reconcile them; he felt it 
was a better use of his time to eat his way steadily through his steak and kidney 
pie, then a large plateful of his favourite treacle tart. 
When all the students had finished eating and the noise level in the Hall was 
starting to creep upwards again, Dumbledore got to his feet once more. Talking 
ceased immediately as all turned to lace the Headmaster. Harry was feeling 
pleasantly drowsy now. His lour‐poster bed was waiting somewhere above, 
wonderfully warm and soft… 
ʹWell, now that we are all digesting another magnificent feast, 1 beg a few 
moments of your attention for the usual start‐of‐term notices,ʹ said Dumbledore. 
ʹFirst‐years ought to know that the Forest in the grounds is out‐of‐bounds to 
students ‐ and a few of our older students ought to know by now, too.ʹ (Harry, 
Ron and Hermione exchanged smirks.) 
ʹMr Filch, the caretaker, has asked me, for what he tells me is the lour‐hundred‐
and‐sixty‐second time, to remind you all that magic is not permitted in corridors 
between classes, nor are a number of other things, all of which can be checked on 
the extensive list now fastened to Mr Filchʹs office door. 
ʹWe have had two changes in staffing this year. We are very pleased to welcome 
back Professor Grubbly‐Plank, who will be taking Care of Magical Creatures 

lessons; we are also delighted to introduce Professor Umbridge, our new Defence 
Against the Dark Arts teacher.ʹ 
There was a round of polite but fairly unenthusiastic applause, during which 
Harry, Ron and Hermione exchanged slightly panicked looks; Dumbledore had 
not said for how long Grubbly‐Plank would be teaching. 
Dumbledore continued, Tryouts for the house Quidditch teams will take place 
on the ‐ʹ 
He broke off, looking enquiringly at Professor Umbridge. As she was not much 
taller standing than sitting, there was a moment when nobody understood why 
Dumbledore had stopped talking, but then Professor Umbridge cleared her 
throat, ʹHem, hem,ʹ and it became clear that she had got to her feet and was 
intending to make a speech. 
Dumbledore only looked taken aback for a moment, then he sat down smartly 
and looked alertly at Professor Umbridge as though he desired nothing better 
than to listen to her talk. Other members of staff were not as adept at hiding their 
surprise. Professor Sproutʹs eyebrows had disappeared into her flyaway hair and 
Professor McGonagallʹs mouth was as thin as Harry had ever seen it. No new 
teacher had ever interrupted Dumbledore before. Many of the students were 
smirking; this woman obviously did not know how things were done at 
Hogwarts. 
Thank you, Headmaster,ʹ Professor Umbridge simpered, ʹfor those kind words of 
welcome.ʹ 
Her voice was high‐pitched, breathy and little‐girlish and, again, Harry felt a 
powerful rush of dislike that he could not explain to himself; all he knew was 
that he loathed everything about her, from her stupid voice to her fluffy pink 
cardigan. She gave another little throat‐clearing cough (ʹhem, hemʹ) and 
continued. 
ʹWell, it is lovely to be back at Hogwarts, I must say!ʹ She smiled, revealing very 
pointed teeth. ʹAnd to see such happy little faces looking up at me!ʹ 
Harry glanced around. None of the faces he could see looked happy. On the 
contrary, they all looked rather taken‐aback at being addressed as though they 
were five years old. 

ʹI am very much looking forward to getting to know you all and Iʹm sure weʹll be 
very good friends!ʹ 
Students exchanged looks at this; some of them were barely concealing grins. 
ʹIʹll be her friend as long as I donʹt have to borrow that cardigan,ʹ Parvati 
whispered to Lavender, and both of them lapsed into silent giggles. 
Professor Umbridge cleared her throat again (ʹhem, hemʹ), but when she 
continued, some of the breathiness had vanished from her voice. She sounded 
much more businesslike and now her words had a dull learned‐by‐heart sound 
to them. 
The Ministry of Magic has always considered the education of young witches 
and wizards to be of vital importance. The rare gifts with which you were born 
may come to nothing if not nurtured and honed by careful instruction. The 
ancient skills unique to the wizarding community must be passed down the 
generations lest we lose them tor ever. The treasure trove of magical knowledge 
amassed by our ancestors must be guarded, replenished and polished by those 
who have been called to the noble profession of teaching.ʹ 
Professor Umbridge paused here and made a little bow to her fellow staff 
members, none of whom bowed back to her. Professor McGonagallʹs dark 
eyebrows had contracted so that she looked positively hawklike, and Harry 
distinctly saw her exchange a significant glance with Professor Sprout as 
Umbridge gave another little ʹhem, hemʹ and went on with her speech. 
Every headmaster and headmistress o( Hogwarts has brought something new to 
the weighty task of governing this historic school, and that is as it should be, lor 
without progress there will be stagnation and decay. There again, progress for 
progressʹs sake must be discouraged, for our tried and tested traditions often 
require no tinkering. A balance, then, between old and new, between 
permanence and change, between tradition and innovation…ʺ 
Harry lound his attentiveness ebbing, as though his brain was slipping in and 
out of tune. The quiet that always filled the Hall when Dumbledore was 
speaking was breaking up as students put their heads together, whispering and 
giggling. Over on the Ravenclaw table Cho Chang was chatting animatedly with 
her friends. A few seats along from Cho, Luna Lovegood had got out The 
Quibbler again. Meanwhile, at the Hufflepuff table Ernie Macmillan was one of 

the few still staring at Professor Umbridge, but he was glassy‐eyed and Harry 
was sure he was only pretending to listen in an attempt to live up to the new 
prefectʹs badge gleaming on his chest. 
Professor Umbridge did not seem to notice the restlessness of her audience. 
Harry had the impression that a full‐scale riot could have broken out under her 
nose and she would have ploughed on with her speech. The teachers, however, 
were still listening very attentively, and Hermione seemed to be drinking in 
every word Umbridge spoke, though, judging by her expression, they were not 
at all to her taste. 
ʹ… because some changes will be for the better, while others will come, in the 
fullness of time, to be recognised as errors of judgement. Meanwhile, some old 
habits will be retained, and rightly so, whereas others, outmoded and outworn, 
must be abandoned. Let us move forward, then, into a new era of openness, 
effectiveness and accountability, intent on preserving what ought to be 
preserved, perfecting what needs to be perfected, and pruning wherever we find 
practices that ought to be prohibited.ʹ 
She sat down. Dumbledore clapped. The staff followed his lead, though Harry 
noticed that several of them brought their hands together only once or twice 
before stopping. A few students joined in, but most had been taken unawares by 
the end of the speech, not having listened to more than a few words of it, and 
before they could start applauding properly, Dumbledore had stood up again. 
Thank you very much, Professor Umbridge, that was most illuminating,ʹ he said, 
bowing to her. ʹNow, as I was saying, Quidditch tryouts will be held…ʺ 
ʹYes, it certainly was illuminating,ʹ said Hermione in a low voice. 
ʹYouʹre not telling me you enjoyed it?ʹ Ron said quietly, turning a glazed face 
towards Hermione. That was about the dullest speech Iʹve ever heard, and I grew 
up with Percy.ʹ 
ʹI said illuminating, not enjoyable,ʹ said Hermione. ʹIt explained a lot.ʹ 
ʹDid it?ʹ said Harry in surprise. ʹSounded like a load of waffle to me.ʹ 
There was some important stuff hidden in the waffle,ʹ said Hermione grimly. 
ʹWas there?ʹ said Ron blankly. 

ʹHow about: ʺprogress for progressʹs sake must be discouragedʺ? How about: 
ʺpruning wherever we find practices that ought to be prohibitedʺ?ʹ 
ʹWell, what does that mean?ʹ said Ron impatiently. 
Til tell you what it means,ʹ said Hermione through gritted teeth. ʹIt means the 
Ministryʹs interfering at Hogwarts.ʹ 
There was a great clattering and banging all around them; Dumbledore had 
obviously just dismissed the school, because everyone was standing up ready to 
leave the Hall. Hermione jumped up, looking flustered. 
ʹRon, weʹre supposed to show the first‐years where to go!ʹ 
ʹOh yeah,ʹ said Ron, who had obviously forgotten. ʹHey ‐ hey, you lot! Midgets!ʹ 
ʹRon!ʹ
ʹWell, they are, theyʹre titchy…ʹ 
ʹI know, but you canʹt call them midgets! ‐ First‐years!ʹ Hermione called 
commandingly along the table. This way, please!ʹ 
A group of new students walked shyly up the gap between the Gryffindor and 
Hufflepuff tables, all of them trying hard not to lead the group. They did indeed 
seem very small; Harry was sure he had not appeared that young when he had 
arrived here. He grinned at them. A blond boy next to Euan Abercrombie looked 
petrified; he nudged Euan and whispered something in his ear. Euan 
Abercrombie looked equally frightened and stole a horrified look at Harry, who 
felt the grin slide off his face like Stinksap. 
ʹSee you later,ʹ he said dully to Ron and Hermione and he made his way out of 
the Great Hall alone, doing everything he could to ignore more whispering, 
staring and pointing as he passed. He kept his eyes fixed ahead as he wove his 
way through the crowd in the Entrance Hall, then he hurried up the marble 
staircase, took a couple of concealed short cuts and had soon left most of the 
crowds behind. 
He had been stupid not to expect this, he thought angrily as he walked through 
the much emptier upstairs corridors. Of course everyone was staring at him; he 
had emerged from the Triwizard maze two months previously clutching the 

dead body of a fellow student and claiming to have seen Lord Voldemort return 
to power. There had not been time last term to explain himself before theyʹd all 
had to go home ‐ even if he had felt up to giving the whole school a detailed 
account of the terrible events in that graveyard. 
Harry had reached the end of the corridor to the Gryffindor common room and 
come to a halt in front of the portrait of the Fat Lady before he realised that he 
did not know the new password. 
ʹEr…ʹ he said glumly, staring up at the Fat Lady, who smoothed the folds of her 
pink satin dress and looked sternly back at him. 
ʹNo password, no entrance,ʹ she said loftily. 
ʹHarry, I know it!ʹ Someone panted up behind him and he turned to see Neville 
jogging towards him. ʹGuess what it is? Iʹm actually going to be able to remember 
it for once ‐ʹ He waved the stunted little cactus he had shown them on the train. 
ʹMimbulus mimble‐tonifl!ʹ 
ʹCorrect,ʹ said the Fat Lady, and her portrait swung open towards them like a 
door, revealing a circular hole in the wall behind, through which Harry and 
Neville now climbed. 
The Gryffindor common room looked as welcoming as ever, a cosy circular 
tower room full of dilapidated squashy armchairs and rickety old tables. A fire 
was crackling merrily in the grate and a few people were warming their hands 
by it before going up to their dormitories; on the other side of the room Fred and 
George Weasley were pinning something up on the noticeboard. Harry waved 
goodnight to them and headed straight for the door to the boysʹ dormitories; he 
was not in much of a mood for talking at the moment. Neville followed him. 
Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan had reached the dormitory first and were in 
the process of covering the walls beside their beds with posters and photographs. 
They had been talking as Harry pushed open the door but stopped abruptly the 
moment they saw him. Harry wondered whether they had been talking about 
him, then whether he was being paranoid. 
ʹHi,ʹ he said, moving across to his own trunk and opening it. 
ʹHey, Harry,ʹ said Dean, who was putting on a pair of pyjamas in the West Ham 
colours. ʹGood holiday?ʹ 

ʹNot bad,ʹ muttered Harry, as a true account of his holiday would have taken 
most of the night to relate and he could not face it. ʹYou?ʹ 
ʹYeah, it was OK,ʹ chuckled Dean. ʹBetter than Seamusʹs, anyway, he was just 
telling me.ʹ 
ʹWhy, what happened, Seamus?ʹ Neville asked as he placed his Mimbulus 
mimbletonia tenderly on his bedside cabinet. 
Seamus did not answer immediately; he was making rather a meal of ensuring 
that his poster of the Kenmare Kestrels Quidditch team was quite straight. Then 
he said, with his back still turned to Harry, ʹMe mam didnʹt want me to come 
back.ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry, pausing in the act of pulling off his robes. 
ʹShe didnʹt want me to come back to Hogwarts.ʹ 
Seamus turned away from his poster and pulled his own pyjamas out of his 
trunk, still not looking at Harry. 
ʹBut ‐ why?ʹ said Harry, astonished. He knew that Seamusʹs mother was a witch 
and could not understand, therefore, why she should have come over so 
Dursleyish. 
Seamus did not answer until he had finished buttoning his pyjamas. 
ʹWell,ʹ he said in a measured voice, ʹI suppose… because of you.ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean?ʹ said Harry quickly. 
His heart was beating rather fast. He felt vaguely as though something was 
closing in on him. 
ʹWell,ʹ said Seamus again, still avoiding Harrys eye, ʹshe… er… well, itʹs not just 
you, itʹs Dumbledore, too…ʹ 
ʹShe believes the Daily Prophet?ʹ said Harry. ʹShe thinks Iʹm a liar and 
Dumbledoreʹs an old fool?ʹ 
Seamus looked up at him. 

ʹYeah, something like that.ʹ 
Harry said nothing. He threw his wand down on to his bedside table, pulled off 
his robes, stuffed them angrily into his trunk and pulled on his pyjamas. He was 
sick of it; sick of being the person who is stared at and talked about all the time. 
If any of them knew, if any of them had the faintest idea what it felt like to be the 
one all these things had happened to… Mrs Finnigan had no idea, the stupid 
woman, he thought savagely. 
He got into bed and made to pull the hangings closed around him, but before he 
could do so, Seamus said, ʹLook… what did happen that night when… you know, 
when… with Cedric Diggory and all?ʹ 
Seamus sounded nervous and eager at the same time. Dean, who had been 
bending over his trunk trying to retrieve a slipper, went oddly still and Harry 
knew he was listening hard. 
ʹWhat are you asking me for?ʹ Harry retorted. ʹJust read the Daily Prophet like 
your mother, why donʹt you? Thatʹll tell you all you need to know.ʹ 
ʹDonʹt you have a go at my mother,ʹ Seamus snapped. 
Til have a go at anyone who calls me a liar,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹDonʹt talk to me like that!ʹ 
Til talk to you how I want,ʹ said Harry, his temper rising so fast he snatched his 
wand back from his bedside table. ʹIf youʹve got a problem sharing a dormitory 
with me, go and ask McGonagall if you can be moved… stop your mummy 
worrying ‐ʹ 
ʹLeave my mother out of this, Potter!ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs going on?ʹ 
Ron had appeared in the doorway. His wide eyes travelled from Harry, who was 
kneeling on his bed with his wand pointing at Seamus, to Seamus, who was 
standing there with his fists raised. 
ʹHeʹs having a go at my mother!ʹ Seamus yelled. 

ʹWhat?ʹ said Ron. ʹHarry wouldnʹt do that — we met your mother, we liked 
her…ʺ 
Thatʹs before she started believing every word the stinking Daily Prophet writes 
about me!ʹ said Harry at the top of his voice. 
ʹOh,ʹ said Ron, comprehension dawning across his freckled face. ʹOh… right.ʹ 
ʹYou know what?ʹ said Seamus heatedly, casting Harry a venomous look. ʹHeʹs 
right, I donʹt want to share a dormitory with him any more, heʹs mad.ʹ 
ʹThatʹs out of order, Seamus,ʹ said Ron, whose ears were starting to glow red ‐ 
always a danger sign. 
ʹOut of order, am I?ʹ shouted Seamus, who in contrast with Ron was going pale. 
ʹYou believe all the rubbish heʹs come out with about You‐Know‐Who, do you, 
you reckon heʹs telling the truth?ʹ 
ʹYeah, I do!ʹ said Ron angrily. 
Then youʹre mad, too,ʹ said Seamus in disgust. 
ʹYeah? Well, unfortunately for you, pal, Iʹm also a prefect!ʹ said Ron, jabbing 
himself in the chest with a finger. ʹSo unless you want detention, watch your 
mouth!ʹ 
Seamus looked for a few seconds as though detention would be a reasonable 
price to pay to say what was going through his mind; but with a noise of 
contempt he turned on his heel, vaulted into bed and pulled the hangings shut 
with such violence that they were ripped from the bed and fell in a dusty pile to 
the floor. Ron glared at Seamus, then looked at Dean and Neville. 
ʹAnyone elseʹs parents got a problem with Harry?ʹ he said aggressively. 
ʹMy parents are Muggles, mate,ʹ said Dean, shrugging. They donʹt know nothing 
about no deaths at Hogwarts, because Iʹm not stupid enough to tell them.ʹ 
ʹYou donʹt know my mother, sheʹd weasel anything out of anyone!ʹ Seamus 
snapped at him. ʹAnyway your parents donʹt get the Daily Prophet. They donʹt 
know our Headmasterʹs been sacked from the Wizengamot and the International 
Confederation of Wizards because heʹs losing his marbles ‐ʹ 

ʹMy gran says thatʹs rubbish,ʹ piped up Neville. ʹShe says itʹs the Daily Prophet 
thatʹs going downhill, not Dumbledore. Sheʹs cancelled our subscription. We 
believe Harryʹ said Neville simply. He climbed into bed and pulled the covers up 
to his chin, looking owlishly over them at Seamus. ʹMy granʹs always said You‐
Know‐Who would come back one day. She says if Dumbledore says heʹs back, 
heʹs back.ʹ 
Harry felt a rush of gratitude towards Neville. Nobody else said anything. 
Seamus got out his wand, repaired the bed hangings and vanished behind them. 
Dean got into bed, rolled over and fell silent. Neville, who appeared to have 
nothing more to say either, was gazing fondly at his moonlit cactus. 
Harry lay back on his pillows while Ron bustled around the next bed, putting his 
things away. He felt shaken by the argument with Seamus, whom he had always 
liked very much. How many more people were going to suggest that he was 
lying, or unhinged? 
Had Dumbledore suffered like this all summer, as first the Wizengamot, then the 
International Confederation of Wizards had thrown him from their ranks? Was it 
anger at Harry, perhaps, that had stopped Dumbledore getting in touch with 
him for months? The two of them were in this together, after all; Dumbledore 
had believed Harry, announced his version of events to the whole school and 
then to the wider wizarding community. Anyone who thought 
HE SORTING HATʹS NEW SONG 
Harry was a liar had to think that Dumbledore was, too, or else that Dumbledore 
had been hoodwinked… 
Theyʹll know weʹre right in the end, thought Harry miserably, as Ron got into 
bed and extinguished the last candle in the dormitory. But he wondered how 
many more attacks like Seamusʹs he would have to endure before that time came. 
— CHAPTER TWELVE — 
Professor Umbridge
Seamus dressed at top speed next morning and left the dormitory before Harry 
had even put on his socks. 

ʹDoes he think heʹll turn into a nutter if he stays in a room with me too long?ʹ 
asked Harry loudly, as the hem of Seamusʹs robes whipped out of sight. 
ʹDonʹt worry about it, Harry,ʹ Dean muttered, hoisting his schoolbag on to his 
shoulder, ʹheʹs just…ʹ 
But apparently he was unable to say exactly what Seamus was, and after a 
slightly awkward pause followed him out of the room. 
Neville and Ron both gave Harry an itʹs‐his‐problem‐not‐yours look, but Harry 
was not much consoled. How much more of this would he have to take? 
ʹWhatʹs the matter?ʹ asked Hermione five minutes later, catching up with Harry 
and Ron halfway across the common room as they all headed towards breakfast. 
ʹYou look absolutely ‐ Oh for heavenʹs sake.ʹ 
She was staring at the common‐room noticeboard, where a large new sign had 
been put up. 
GALLONS OF GALLEONS.ʹ Pocket money failing to keep pace with your outgoings? 
Like to earn a little extra gold? Contact Fred and George Weasley, Gryffindor common 
room,
for simple, part‐time, virtually painless jobs. (We regret that all work is undertaken at 
applicantʹs own risk.)
They are the limit,ʹ said Hermione grimly, taking down the sign, which Fred and 
George had pinned up over a poster giving the 
I 
date of the first Hogsmeade weekend, which was to be in October. ʹWeʹll have to 
talk to them, Ron.ʹ 
Ron looked positively alarmed. 
ʹWhy?ʹ 
ʹBecause weʹre prefects!ʹ said Hermione, as they climbed out through the portrait 
hole. ʹItʹs up to us to stop this kind of thing!ʹ 

Ron said nothing; Harry could tell from his glum expression that the prospect of 
stopping Fred and George doing exactly what they liked was not one he found 
inviting. 
ʹAnyway, whatʹs up, Harry?ʹ Hermione continued, as they walked down a flight 
of stairs lined with portraits of old witches and wizards, all of whom ignored 
them, being engrossed in their own conversation. ʹYou look really angry about 
something.ʹ 
ʹSeamus reckons Harryʹs lying about You‐Know‐Who,ʹ said Ron succinctly, when 
Harry did not respond. 
Hermione, who Harry had expected to react angrily on his behalf, sighed. 
ʹYes, Lavender thinks so too,ʹ she said gloomily. 
ʹBeen having a nice little chat with her about whether or not Iʹm a lying, 
attention‐seeking prat, have you?ʹ Harry said loudly. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Hermione calmly. ʹI told her to keep her big fat mouth shut about you, 
actually. And it would be quite nice if you stopped jumping down our throats, 
Harry, because in case you havenʹt noticed, Ron and I are on your side.ʹ 
There was a short pause. 
ʹSorry,ʹ said Harry in a low voice. 
Thatʹs quite all right,ʹ said Hermione with dignity. Then she shook her head. 
ʹDonʹt you remember what Dumbledore said at the last end‐of‐term feast?ʹ 
Harry and Ron both looked at her blankly and Hermione sighed again. 
ʹAbout You‐Know‐Who. He said his ʺgift for spreading discord and enmity is 
very great. We can fight it only by showing an equally strong bond of friendship 
and trust —ʺʹ 
ʹHow do you remember stuff like that?ʹ asked Ron, looking at her in admiration. 
ʹI listen, Ron,ʹ said Hermione, with a touch of asperity. 
ʹSo do I, but I still couldnʹt tell you exactly what ‐ʹ 

The point,ʹ Hermione pressed on loudly, ʹis that this sort of thing is exactly what 
Dumbledore was talking about. You‐Know‐Whoʹs only been back two months 
and weʹve already started fighting among ourselves. And the Sorting Hats 
warning was the same: stand together, be united —ʹ 
ʹAnd Harry got it right last night,ʹ retorted Ron. ʹIf that means weʹre supposed to 
get matey with the Slytherins ‐fat chance.ʹ 
ʹWell, I think itʹs a pity weʹre not trying for a bit of inter‐house unity,ʹ said 
Hermione crossly. 
They had reached the foot of the marble staircase. A line of fourth‐year 
Ravenclaws was crossing the Entrance Hall; they caught sight of Harry and 
hurried to form a tighter group, as though frightened he might attack stragglers. 
ʹYeah, we really ought to be trying to make friends with people like that,ʹ said 
Harry sarcastically. 
They followed the Ravenclaws into the Great Hall, all looking instinctively at the 
staff table as they entered. Professor Grubbly‐Plank was chatting to Professor 
Sinistra, the Astronomy teacher, and Hagrid was once again conspicuous only by 
his absence. The enchanted ceiling above them echoed Harryʹs mood; it was a 
miserable rain‐cloud grey. 
ʹDumbledore didnʹt even mention how long that Grubbly‐Plank womanʹs 
staying,ʹ he said, as they made their way across to the Gryffindor table. *• . 
ʹMaybe…ʹ said Hermione thoughtfully. ʹ•ʹ••ʹ
ʹWhat?ʹ said both Harry and Ron together. 
ʹWell… maybe he didnʹt want to draw attention to Hagrid not being here.ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean, draw attention to it?ʹ said Ron, half‐laughing. ʹHow could we 
not notice?ʹ 
Before Hermione could answer, a tall black girl with long braided hair had 
marched up to Harry. 
ʹHi, Angelina.ʹ 

ʹHi,ʹ she said briskly, ʹgood summer?ʹ And without waiting for an answer, 
ʹListen, Iʹve been made Gryffindor Quidditch Captain.ʹ 
ʹNice one,ʹ said Harry, grinning at her; he suspected Angelinaʹs pep talks might 
not be as long‐winded as Oliver Woodʹs had been, which could only be an 
improvement. 
ʹYeah, well, we need a new Keeper now Oliverʹs left. Tryouts are on Friday at 
five oʹclock and I want the whole team there, all right? Then we can see how the 
new personʹll fit in.ʹ 
ʹOK,ʹ said Harry. 
Angelina smiled at him and departed. 
ʹIʹd forgotten Wood had left,ʹ said Hermione vaguely as she sat down beside Ron 
and pulled a plate of toast towards her. ʹI suppose that will make quite a 
difference to the team?ʹ 
ʹIʹsʹpose,ʹ said Harry, taking the bench opposite. ʹHe was a good Keeper…ʹ 
ʹStill, it wonʹt hurt to have some new blood, will it?ʹ said Ron. 
With a whoosh and a clatter, hundreds of owls came soaring in through the 
upper windows. They descended all over the Hall, bringing letters and packages 
to their owners and showering the breakfasters with droplets of water; it was 
clearly raining hard outside. Hedwig was nowhere to be seen, but Harry was 
hardly surprised; his only correspondent was Sirius, and he doubted Sirius 
would have anything new to tell him after only twenty‐four hours apart. 
Hermione, however, had to move her orange juice aside quickly to make way for 
a large damp barn owl bearing a sodden Daily Prophet in its beak. 
ʹWhat are you still getting that for?ʹ said Harry irritably, thinking of Seamus as 
Hermione placed a Knut in the leather pouch on the owlʹs leg and it took off 
again. ʹIʹm not bothering… load of rubbish.ʹ 
ʹItʹs best to know what the enemy is saying,ʹ said Hermione darkly, and she 
unfurled the newspaper and disappeared behind it, not emerging until Harry 
and Ron had finished eating. 

ʹNothing,ʹ she said simply, rolling up the newspaper and laying it down by her 
plate. ʹNothing about you or Dumbledore or anything.ʹ 
Professor McGonagall was now moving along the table handing out timetables. 
ʹLook at today!ʹ groaned Ron. ʹHistory of Magic, double Potions, 
Divination and double Defence Against the Dark Arts… Binns, Snape, Trelawney 
and that Umbridge woman all in one day! I wish Fred and Georgeʹd hurry up 
and get those Skiving Snackboxes sorted…ʹ 
ʹDo mine ears deceive me?ʹ said Fred, arriving with George and squeezing on to 
the bench beside Harry. ʹHogwarts prefects surely donʹt wish to skive off 
lessons?ʹ 
ʹLook what weʹve got today,ʹ said Ron grumpily, shoving his timetable under 
Fredʹs nose. Thatʹs the worst Monday Iʹve ever seen.ʹ 
ʹFair point, little bro,ʹ said Fred, scanning the column. ʹYou can have a bit of 
Nosebleed Nougat cheap if you like.ʹ 
ʹWhyʹs it cheap?ʹ said Ron suspiciously. 
ʹBecause youʹll keep bleeding till you shrivel up, we havenʹt got an antidote yet,ʹ 
said George, helping himself to a kipper. 
ʹCheers,ʹ said Ron moodily, pocketing his timetable, ʹbut I think Iʹll take the 
lessons.ʹ 
ʹAnd speaking of your Skiving Snackboxes,ʹ said Hermione, eyeing Fred and 
George beadily, ʹyou canʹt advertise for testers on the Gryffindor noticeboard.ʹ 
ʹSays who?ʹ said George, looking astonished. 
ʹSays me,ʹ said Hermione. ʹAnd Ron.ʹ 
ʹLeave me out of it,ʹ said Ron hastily. 
Hermione glared at him. Fred and George sniggered. 

ʹYouʹll be singing a different tune soon enough, Hermione,ʹ said Fred, thickly 
buttering a crumpet. ʹYouʹre starting your fifth year, youʹll be begging us for a 
Snackbox before long.ʹ 
ʹAnd why would starting fifth year mean I want a Skiving Snackbox?ʹ asked 
Hermione. 
ʹFifth yearʹs OWL year,ʹ said George. 
ʹSo?ʹ 
ʹSo youʹve got your exams coming up, havenʹt you? Theyʹll be keeping your 
noses so hard to that grindstone theyʹll be rubbed raw,ʹ said Fred with 
satisfaction. 
ʹHalf our year had minor breakdowns coming up to OWLs,ʹ said George happily. 
Tears and tantrums… Patricia Stimpson kept coming over faint…ʺ 
ʹKenneth Towler came out in boils, dʹyou remember?ʹ said Fred reminiscently. 
Thatʹs ʹcause you put Bulbadox powder in his pyjamas,ʹ said George. 
ʹOh yeah,ʹ said Fred, grinning. ʹIʹd forgotten… hard to keep track sometimes, isnʹt 
it?ʹ 
ʹAnyway, itʹs a nightmare of a year, the fifth,ʹ said George. ʹIf you care about 
exam results, anyway. Fred and I managed to keep our peckers up somehow.ʹ 
ʹYeah… you got, what was it, three OWLs each?ʹ said Ron. 
ʹYep,ʹ said Fred unconcernedly. ʹBut we feel our futures lie outside the world of 
academic achievement.ʹ 
ʹWe seriously debated whether we were going to bother coming back for our 
seventh year,ʹ said George brightly, ʹnow that weʹve got‐ʹ 
He broke off at a warning look from Harry, who knew George had been about to 
mention the Triwizard winnings he had given them. 

ʹ‐ now that weʹve got our OWLs,ʹ George said hastily. ʹI mean, do we really need 
NEWTs? But we didnʹt think Mum could take us leaving school early, not on top 
of Percy turning out to be the worldʹs biggest prat.ʹ 
ʹWeʹre not going to waste our last year here, though,ʹ said Fred, looking 
afiectionately around at the Great Hall. ʹWeʹre going to use it to do a bit of 
market research, find out exactly what the average Hogwarts student requires 
from a joke shop, carefully evaluate the results of our research, then produce 
products to fit the demand.ʹ 
ʹBut where are you going to get the gold to start a joke shop?ʹ Hermione asked 
sceptically. ʹYouʹre going to need all the ingredients and materials ‐ and premises 
too, I suppose…ʺ 
Harry did not look at the twins. His face felt hot; he deliberately dropped his fork 
and dived down to retrieve it. He heard Fred say overhead, ʹAsk us no questions 
and weʹll tell you no lies, Hermione. Cʹmon, George, if we get there early we 
might be able to sell a few Extendable Ears before Herbology.ʹ 
Harry emerged from under the table to see Fred and George walking away, each 
carrying a stack of toast. 
ʹWhat did that mean?ʹ said Hermione, looking from Harry to Ron. ʹʺAsk us no 
questions…ʺ Does that mean theyʹve already got some gold to start a joke shop?ʹ 
ʹYou know, Iʹve been wondering about that,ʹ said Ron, his brow furrowed. They 
bought me a new set of dress robes this summer and I couldnʹt understand 
where they got the Galleons…ʺ 
Harry decided it was time to steer the conversation out of these dangerous 
waters. 
ʹDʹyou reckon itʹs true this yearʹs going to be really tough? Because of the exams?ʹ 
ʹOh, yeah,ʹ said Ron. ʹBound to be, isnʹt it? OWLs are really important, affect the 
jobs you can apply for and everything. We get career advice, too, later this year, 
Bill told me. So you can choose what NEWTs you want to do next year.ʹ 
ʹDʹyou know what you want to do after Hogwarts?ʹ Harry asked the other two, 
as they left the Great Hall shortly afterwards and set off towards their History of 
Magic classroom. 

ʹNot really,ʹ said Ron slowly. ʹExcept… well…ʹ 
He looked slightly sheepish. 
ʹWhat?ʹ Harry urged him. 
ʹWell, itʹd be cool to be an Auror,ʹ said Ron in an off‐hand voice. 
ʹYeah, it would,ʹ said Harry fervently. 
ʹBut theyʹre, like, the elite,ʹ said Ron. ʹYouʹve got to be really good. What about 
you, Hermione?ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know,ʹ she said. ʹI think Iʹd like to do something really worthwhile.ʹ 
ʹAn Aurorʹs worthwhile!ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYes, it is, but itʹs not the only worthwhile thing,ʹ said Hermione thoughtfully, ʹI 
mean, if I could take SPEW further…ʹ 
Harry and Ron carefully avoided looking at each other. 
History of Magic was by common consent the most boring subject ever devised 
by wizardkind. Professor Binns, their ghost teacher, had a wheezy, droning voice 
that was almost guaranteed to cause severe drowsiness within ten minutes, five 
in warm weather. He never varied the form of their lessons, but lectured them 
without pausing while they took notes, or rather, gazed sleepily into space. 
Harry and Ron had so far managed to scrape passes in this subject only by 
copying Hermioneʹs notes before exams; she alone seemed able to resist the 
soporific power of Binnsʹs voice. 
Today, they suffered an hour and a halfʹs droning on the subject of giant wars. 
Harry heard just enough within the first ten minutes to appreciate dimly that in 
another teacherʹs hands this subject might have been mildly interesting, but then 
his brain disengaged, and he spent the remaining hour and twenty minutes 
playing hangman on a corner of his parchment with Ron, while Hermione shot 
them filthy looks out of the corner of her eye. 
ʹHow would it be,ʹ she asked them coldly, as they left the classroom for break 
(Binns drifting away through the blackboard), ʹif I refused to lend you my notes 
this year?ʹ 

ʹWeʹd fail our OWL,ʹ said Ron. ʹIf you want that on your conscience, Hermione…ʹ 
ʹWell, youʹd deserve it,ʹ she snapped. ʹYou donʹt even try to listen to him, do 
you?ʹ 
ʹWe do tryʹ said Ron. ʹWe just havenʹt got your brains or your memory or your 
concentration ‐ youʹre just cleverer than we are ‐ is it nice to rub it in?ʹ 
ʹOh, donʹt give me that rubbish,ʹ said Hermione, but she looked slightly mollified 
as she led the way out into the damp courtyard. 
A fine misty drizzle was falling, so that the people standing in huddles around 
the edges of the yard looked blurred at the edges. Harry, Ron and Hermione 
chose a secluded corner under a heavily dripping balcony, turning up the collars 
of their robes against the chilly September air and talking about what Snape was 
likely to set them in the first lesson of the year. They had got as far as agreeing 
that it was likely to be something extremely difficult, just to catch them off guard 
after a two‐month holiday, when someone walked around the corner towards 
them. 
ʹHello, Harry!ʹ 
It was Cho Chang and, what was more, she was on her own again. This was most 
unusual: Cho was almost always surrounded by a gang of giggling girls; Harry 
remembered the agony of trying to get her by herself to ask her to the Yule Ball. 
ʹHi,ʹ said Harry, feeling his face grow hot. At least youʹre not
covered in Stinksap this time, he told himself. Cho seemed to be thinking along the 
same lines. 
ʹYou got that stuff off, then?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, trying to grin as though the memory of their last meeting was 
funny as opposed to mortifying. ʹSo, did you… er… have a good summer?ʹ 
The moment he had said this he wished he hadnʹt ‐ Cedric had been Choʹs 
boyfriend and the memory of his death must have affected her holiday almost as 
badly as it had affected Harrys. Something seemed to tauten in her face, but she 
said, ʹOh, it was all right, you know…ʹ 

ʹIs that a Tornados badge?ʹ Ron demanded suddenly, pointing to the front of 
Choʹs robes, where a sky‐blue badge emblazoned with a double gold Tʹ was 
pinned. ʹYou donʹt support them, do you?ʹ 
ʹYeah, I do,ʹ said Cho. 
ʹHave you always supported them, or just since they started winning the league?ʹ 
said Ron, in what Harry considered an unnecessarily accusatory tone of voice. 
ʹIʹve supported them since I was six,ʹ said Cho coolly. ʹAnyway… see you, Harry.ʹ 
She walked away. Hermione waited until Cho was halfway across the courtyard 
before rounding on Ron. 
ʹYou are so tactless!ʹ 
ʹWhat? I only asked her if ‐ʹ 
ʹCouldnʹt you tell she wanted to talk to Harry on her own?ʹ 
ʹSo? She couldʹve done, I wasnʹt stopping ‐ʹ 
ʹWhy on earth were you attacking her about her Quidditch team?ʹ 
ʹAttacking? I wasnʹt attacking her, I was only ‐ʹ 
ʹWho cares if she supports the Tornados?ʹ 
ʹOh, come on, half the people you see wearing those badges only bought them 
last season ‐ʹ 
ʹBut what does it matter!ʹ 
ʹIt means theyʹre not real fans, theyʹre just jumping on the bandwagon ‐ʹ 
Thatʹs the bell,ʹ said Harry dully, because Ron and Hermione were bickering too 
loudly to hear it. They did not stop arguing all the way down to Snapeʹs 
dungeon, which gave Harry plenty of time to reflect that between Neville and 
Ron he would be lucky ever to have two minutes of conversation with Cho that 
he could look back on without wanting to leave the country. 

And yet, he thought, as they joined the queue lining up outside Snapeʹs 
classroom door, she had chosen to come and talk to him, hadnʹt she? She had 
been Cedricʹs girlfriend; she could easily have hated Harry for coming out of the 
Triwizard maze alive when Cedric had died, yet she was talking to him in a 
perfectly friendly way, not as though she thought him mad, or a liar, or in some 
horrible way responsible for Cedricʹs death… yes, she had definitely chosen to 
come and talk to him, and that made the second time in two days… and at this 
thought, Harryʹs spirits rose. Even the ominous sound of Snapeʹs dungeon door 
creaking open did not puncture the small, hopeful bubble that seemed to have 
swelled in his chest. He filed into the classroom behind Ron and Hermione and 
followed them to their usual table at the back, where he sat down between Ron 
and Hermione and ignored the huffy, irritable noises now issuing from both of 
them. 
ʹSettle down,ʹ said Snape coldly, shutting the door behind him. 
There was no real need for the call to order; the moment the class had heard the 
door close, quiet had fallen and all fidgeting stopped. Snapeʹs mere presence was 
usually enough to ensure a classʹs silence. 
ʹBefore we begin todayʹs lesson,ʹ said Snape, sweeping over to his desk and 
staring around at them all, ʹI think it appropriate to remind you that next June 
you will be sitting an important examination, during which you will prove how 
much you have learned about the composition and use of magical potions. 
Moronic though some of this class undoubtedly are, I expect you to scrape an 
ʺAcceptableʺ in your OWL, or suffer my… displeasure.ʹ 
His gaze lingered this time on Neville, who gulped. 
ʹAfter this year, of course, many of you will cease studying with me,ʹ Snape went 
on. ʹ1 take only the very best into my NEWT Potions class, which means that 
some of us will certainly be saying goodbye.ʹ 
His eyes rested on Harry and his lip curled. Harry glared back, feeling a grim 
pleasure at the idea that he would be able to give up Potions after fifth year. 
ʹBut we have another year to go before that happy moment of farewell,ʹ said 
Snape softly, ʹso, whether or not you are intending to attempt NEWT, I advise all 
of you to concentrate your efforts upon maintaining the high pass level I have 
come to expect from my OWL students. 

Today we will be mixing a potion that often comes up at Ordinary Wizarding 
Level: the Draught of Peace, a potion to calm anxiety and soothe agitation. Be 
warned: if you are too heavy‐handed with the ingredients you will put the 
drinker into a heavy and sometimes irreversible sleep, so you will need to pay 
close attention to what you are doing.ʹ On Harryʹs left, Hermione sat up a little 
straighter, her expression one of utmost attention. The ingredients and method ‐ʹ 
Snape flicked his wand ʹ‐ are on the blackboard ‐ʹ (they appeared there) ʹ‐ you 
will find everything you need —ʹ he flicked his wand again ʹ‐ in the store 
cupboard —ʹ (the door of the said cupboard sprang open) ʹ‐ you have an hour 
and a half… start.ʹ 
Just as Harry, Ron and Hermione had predicted, Snape could hardly have set 
them a more difficult, fiddly potion. The ingredients had to be added to the 
cauldron in precisely the right order and quantities; the mixture had to be stirred 
exactly the right number of times, firstly in clockwise, then in anti‐clockwise 
directions; the heat of the flames on which it was simmering had to be lowered to 
exactly the right level for a specific number of minutes before the final ingredient 
was added. 
ʹA light silver vapour should now be rising from your potion,ʹ called Snape, with 
ten minutes left to go. 
Harry, who was sweating profusely, looked desperately around the dungeon. 
His own cauldron was issuing copious amounts of dark grey steam; Ronʹs was 
spitting green sparks. Seamus was feverishly prodding the flames at the base of 
his cauldron with the tip of his wand, as they seemed to be going out. The 
surface of Hermioneʹs potion, however, was a shimmering mist of silver vapour, 
and as Snape swept by he looked down his hooked nose at it without comment, 
which meant he could find nothing to criticise. 
At Harryʹs cauldron, however, Snape stopped, and looked down at it with a 
horrible smirk on his face. 
ʹPotter, what is this supposed to be?ʹ 
The Slytherins at the front of the class all looked up eagerly; they loved hearing 
Snape taunt Harry. 
The Draught of Peace,ʹ said Harry tensely. 
Tell me, Potter,ʹ said Snape softly, ʹcan you read?ʹ 

Draco Malfoy laughed. 
ʹYes, I can,ʹ said Harry, his fingers clenched tightly around his wand. 
ʹRead the third line of the instructions for me, Potter.ʹ 
Harry squinted at the blackboard; it was not easy to make out the instructions 
through the haze of multi‐coloured steam now filling the dungeon. 
ʹʺAdd powdered moonstone, stir three times counter‐clockwise, allow to simmer 
for seven minutes then add two drops of syrup of hellebore.ʺʹ 
His heart sank. He had not added syrup of hellebore, but had proceeded straight 
to the fourth line of the instructions after allowing his potion to simmer for seven 
minutes. 
ʹDid you do everything on the third line, Potter?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry very quietly. 
ʹI beg your pardon?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry, more loudly. ʹI forgot the hellebore.ʹ 
ʹI know you did, Potter, which means that this mess is utterly worthless. 
Evanesce.ʹ 
The contents of Harryʹs potion vanished; he was left standing foolishly beside an 
empty cauldron. 
Those of you who have managed to read the instructions, fill one flagon with a 
sample of your potion, label it clearly with your name and bring it up to my desk 
for testing,ʹ said Snape. ʹHomework: twelve inches of parchment on the 
properties of moonstone and its uses in potion‐making, to be handed in on 
Thursday.ʹ 
While everyone around him filled their flagons, Harry cleared away his things, 
seething. His potion had been no worse than Ronʹs, which was now giving off a 
foul odour of bad eggs; or Nevilleʹs, which had achieved the consistency of just‐
mixed cement and which 

Neville was now having to gouge out of his cauldron; yet it was he, Harry, who 
would be receiving zero marks for the dayʹs work. He stuffed his wand back into 
his bag and slumped down on to his seat, watching everyone else march up to 
Snapeʹs desk with filled and corked flagons. When at long last the bell rang, 
Harry was first out of the dungeon and had already started his lunch by the time 
Ron and Hermione joined him in the Great Hall. The ceiling had turned an even 
murkier grey during the morning. Rain was lashing the high windows. 
That was really unfair,ʹ said Hermione consolingly, sitting down next to Harry 
and helping herself to shepherdʹs pie. ʹYour potion wasnʹt nearly as bad as 
Goyleʹs; when he put it in his flagon the whole thing shattered and set his robes 
on fire.ʹ 
ʹYeah, well,ʹ said Harry, glowering at his plate, ʹsince when has Snape ever been 
fair to me?ʹ 
Neither of the others answered; all three of them knew that Snape and Harryʹs 
mutual enmity had been absolute from the moment Harry had set foot in 
Hogwarts. 
ʹI did think he might be a bit better this year,ʹ said Hermione in a disappointed 
voice. ʹI mean… you know…ʹ she looked around carefully; there were half a 
dozen empty seats on either side of them and nobody was passing the table ʹ… 
now heʹs in the Order and everything.ʹ 
ʹPoisonous toadstools donʹt change their spots,ʹ said Ron sagely. ʹAnyway Iʹve 
always thought Dumbledore was cracked to trust Snape. Whereʹs the evidence 
he ever really stopped working for You‐Know‐Who?ʹ 
ʹI think Dumbledoreʹs probably got plenty of evidence, even if he doesnʹt share it 
with you, Ron,ʹ snapped Hermione. 
ʹOh, shut up, the pair of you,ʹ said Harry heavily, as Ron opened his mouth to 
argue back. Hermione and Ron both froze, looking angry and offended. ʹCanʹt 
you give it a rest?ʹ said Harry. ʹYouʹre always having a go at each other, itʹs 
driving me mad.ʹ And abandoning his shepherdʹs pie, he swung his schoolbag 
back over his shoulder and left them sitting there. 
He walked up the marble staircase two steps at a time, past the many students 
hurrying towards lunch. The anger that had just flared so unexpectedly still 
blazed inside him, and the vision of Ron and Hermioneʹs shocked faces afforded 

him a sense of deep satisfaction. Serve them right, he thought, why canʹt they give it 
a rest … bickering all the time… itʹs enough to drive anyone up the wall… 
He passed the large picture of Sir Cadogan the knight on a landing; Sir Cadogan 
drew his sword and brandished it fiercely at Harry, who ignored him. 
ʹCome back, you scurvy dog! Stand fast and fight!ʹ yelled Sir Cadogan in a 
muffled voice from behind his visor, but Harry merely walked on and when Sir 
Cadogan attempted to follow him by running into a neighbouring picture, he 
was rebuffed by its inhabitant, a large and angry‐looking wolfhound. 
Harry spent the rest of the lunch hour sitting alone underneath the trapdoor at 
the top of North Tower. Consequently, he was the first to ascend the silver 
ladder that led to Sybill Trelawneyʹs classroom when the bell rang. 
After Potions, Divination was Harrys least favourite class, which was due mainly 
to Professor Trelawneyʹs habit of predicting his premature death every few 
lessons. A thin woman, heavily draped in shawls and glittering with strings of 
beads, she always reminded Harry of some kind of insect, with her glasses 
hugely magnifying her eyes. She was busy putting copies of battered leather‐
bound books on each of the spindly little tables with which her room was littered 
when Harry entered the room, but the light cast by the lamps covered by scarves 
and the low‐burning, sickly‐scented fire was so dim she appeared not to notice 
him as he took a seat in the shadows. The rest of the class arrived over the next 
five minutes. Ron emerged from the trapdoor, looked around carefully, spotted 
Harry and made directly for him, or as directly as he could while having to wend 
his way between tables, chairs and overstuffed pouffes. 
ʹHermione and me have stopped arguing,ʹ he said, sitting down beside Harry. 
ʹGood,ʹ grunted Harry. 
ʹBut Hermione says she thinks it would be nice if you stopped taking out your 
temper on us,ʹ said Ron. 
ʹIʹm not ‐ʹ 
ʹIʹm just passing on the message,ʹ said Ron, talking over him. ʹBut I reckon sheʹs 
right. Itʹs not our fault how Seamus and Snape treat you.ʹ 
ʹI never said it ‐ʹ 

ʹGood‐day,ʹ said Professor Trelawney in her usual misty, dreamy voice, and 
Harry broke off, again feeling both annoyed and slightly ashamed of himself. 
ʹAnd welcome back to Divination. I have, of course, been following your fortunes 
most carefully over the holidays, and am delighted to see that you have all 
returned to Hogwarts safely ‐ as, of course, I knew you would. 
ʹYou will find on the tables before you copies of The Dream Oracle, by Inigo 
Imago. Dream interpretation is a most important means of divining the future 
and one that may very probably be tested in your OWL. Not, of course, that I 
believe examination passes or failures are of the remotest importance when it 
comes to the sacred art of divination. If you have the Seeing Eye, certificates and 
grades matter very little. However, the Headmaster likes you to sit the 
examination, so…ʹ 
Her voice trailed away delicately, leaving them all in no doubt that Professor 
Trelawney considered her subject above such sordid matters as examinations. 
Turn, please, to the introduction and read what Imago has to say on the matter of 
dream interpretation. Then, divide into pairs. Use The Dream Oracle to interpret 
each others most recent dreams. Carry on.ʹ 
The one good thing to be said for this lesson was that it was not a double period. 
By the time they had all finished reading the introduction of the book, they had 
barely ten minutes left for dream interpretation. At the table next to Harry and 
Ron, Dean had paired up with Neville, who immediately embarked on a long‐
winded explanation of a nightmare involving a pair of giant scissors wearing his 
grandmotherʹs best hat; Harry and Ron merely looked at each other glumly. 
ʹI never remember my dreams,ʹ said Ron, ʹyou say one.ʹ 
ʹYou must remember one of them,ʹ said Harry impatiently. 
He was not going to share his dreams with anyone. He knew perfectly well what 
his regular nightmare about a graveyard meant, he did not need Ron or 
Professor Trelawney or the stupid Dream Oracle to tell him. 
ʹWell, I dreamed I was playing Quidditch the other night,ʹ said Ron, screwing up 
his face in an effort to remember. ʹWhat dʹyou reckon that means?ʹ 
ʹProbably that youʹre going to be eaten by a giant marshmallow or something,ʹ 
said Harry, turning the pages of The Dream Oracle without interest. It was very 

dull work looking up bits of dreams in the Oracle and Harry was not cheered up 
when Professor Trelawney set them the task of keeping a dream diary for a 
month as homework. When the bell went, he and Ron led the way back down 
the ladder, Ron grumbling loudly. 
ʹDʹyou realise how much homework weʹve got already? Binns set us a foot‐and‐
a‐half‐long essay on giant wars, Snape wants a foot on the use of moonstones, 
and now weʹve got a monthʹs dream diary from Trelawney! Fred and George 
werenʹt wrong about OWL year, were they? That Umbridge woman had better 
not give us any…ʺ 
When they entered the Defence Against the Dark Arts classroom they found 
Professor Umbridge already seated at the teacherʹs desk, wearing the fluffy pink 
cardigan of the night before and the black velvet bow on top of her head. Harry 
was again reminded forcibly of a large fly perched unwisely on top of an even 
larger toad. 
The class was quiet as it entered the room; Professor Umbridge was, as yet, an 
unknown quantity and nobody knew how strict a disciplinarian she was likely to 
be. 
ʹWell, good afternoon!ʹ she said, when finally the whole class had sat down. 
A few people mumbled ʹgood afternoonʹ in reply. 
Tut, tut,ʹ said Professor Umbridge. ʹThat wonʹt do, now, will it? I should like you, 
please, to reply ʺGood afternoon, Professor Umbridgeʺ. One more time, please. 
Good afternoon, class!ʹ 
ʹGood afternoon, Professor Umbridge,ʹ they chanted back at her. 
There, now,ʹ said Professor Umbridge sweetly. That wasnʹt too difficult, was it? 
Wands away and quills out, please.ʹ 
Many of the class exchanged gloomy looks; the order ʹwands awayʹ had never 
yet been followed by a lesson they had found interesting. Harry shoved his wand 
back inside his bag and pulled out quill, ink and parchment. Professor Umbridge 
opened her handbag, extracted her own wand, which was an unusually short 
one, and tapped the blackboard sharply with it; words appeared on the board at 
once: 

Defence Against the Dark Arts A Return to Basic Principles
ʹWell now, your teaching in this subject has been rather disrupted and 
fragmented, hasnʹt it?ʹ stated Professor Umbridge, turning to face the class with 
her hands clasped neatly in front of her. The constant changing of teachers, many 
of whom do not seem to have followed any Ministry‐approved curriculum, has 
unfortunately resulted in your being far below the standard we would expect to 
see in your OWL year. 
ʹYou will be pleased to know, however, that these problems are now to be 
rectified. We will be following a carefully structured, theory‐centred, Ministry‐
approved course of defensive magic this year. Copy down the following, please.ʹ 
She rapped the blackboard again; the first message vanished and was replaced 
by the ʹCourse Aimsʹ. 
. Understanding the principles underlying defensive magic.
. Learning to recognise situations in which defensive magic can legally be used.
. Placing the use of defensive magic in a context for practical use.
For a couple of minutes the room was full of the sound of scratching quills on 
parchment. When everyone had copied down Professor Umbridgeʹs three course 
aims she asked, ʹHas everybody got a copy of Defensive Magical Theory by Wilbert 
Slinkhard?ʹ 
There was a dull murmur of assent throughout the class. 
ʹI think weʹll try that again,ʹ said Professor Umbridge. ʹWhen I ask you a 
question, I should like you to reply, ʺYes, Professor Umbridgeʺ, or ʺNo, Professor 
Umbridgeʺ. So: has everyone got a copy of Defensive Magical Theory by Wilbert 
Slinkhard?ʹ 
ʹYes, Professor Umbridge,ʹ rang through the room. 
ʹGood,ʹ said Professor Umbridge. ʹI should like you to turn to page five and read 
ʺChapter One, Basics for Beginnersʺ. There will be no need to talk.ʹ 
Professor Umbridge left the blackboard and settled herself in the chair behind 
the teacherʹs desk, observing them all closely with those pouchy toadʹs eyes. 

Harry turned to page five of his copy of Defensive Magical Theory and started to 
read. 
It was desperately dull, quite as bad as listening to Professor Binns. He felt his 
concentration sliding away from him; he had soon read the same line half a 
dozen times without taking in more than the first few words. Several silent 
minutes passed. Next to him, Ron was absent‐mindedly turning his quill over 
and over in his fingers, staring at the same spot on the page. Harry looked right 
and received a surprise to shake him out of his torpor. Hermione had not even 
opened her copy of Defensive Magical Theory. She was staring fixedly at 
Professor Umbridge with her hand in the air. 
Harry could not remember Hermione ever neglecting to read when instructed to, 
or indeed resisting the temptation to open any book that came under her nose. 
He looked at her enquiringly, but she merely shook her head slightly to indicate 
that she was not about to answer questions, and continued to stare at Professor 
Umbridge, who was looking just as resolutely in another direction. 
After several more minutes had passed, however, Harry was not the only one 
watching Hermione. The chapter they had been instructed to read was so tedious 
that more and more people were choosing to watch Hermioneʹs mute attempt to 
catch Professor Umbridgeʹs eye rather than struggle on with ʹBasics for 
Beginnersʹ. 
When more than half the class were staring at Hermione rather than at their 
books, Professor Umbridge seemed to decide that she could ignore the situation 
no longer. 
ʹDid you want to ask something about the chapter, dear?ʹ she asked Hermione, as 
though she had only just noticed her. 
ʹNot about the chapter, no,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹWell, weʹre reading just now,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, showing her small 
pointed teeth. ʹIf you have other queries we can deal with them at the end of 
class.ʹ 
ʹIʹve got a query about your course aims,ʹ said Hermione. 
Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows. 

ʹAnd your name is?ʹ 
ʹHermione Granger,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹWell, Miss Granger, I think the course aims are perfectly clear if you read them 
through carefullyʹ said Professor Umbridge in a voice of determined sweetness. 
ʹWell, I donʹt,ʹ said Hermione bluntly. Thereʹs nothing written up there about 
using defensive spells.ʹ 
There was a short silence in which many members of the class turned their heads 
to frown at the three course aims still written on the blackboard. 
ʹUsing defensive spells?ʹ Professor Umbridge repeated with a little laugh. ʹWhy, I 
canʹt imagine any situation arising in my classroom that would require you to 
use a defensive spell, Miss Granger. You surely arenʹt expecting to be attacked 
during class?ʹ 
ʹWeʹre not going to use magic?ʹ Ron exclaimed loudly. 
ʹStudents raise their hands when they wish to speak in my class, Mr‐?ʹ 
ʹWeasley,ʹ said Ron, thrusting his hand into the air. 
Professor Umbridge, smiling still more widely, turned her back on him. Harry 
and Hermione immediately raised their hands too. Professor Umbridgeʹs pouchy 
eyes lingered on Harry for a moment before she addressed Hermione. 
ʹYes, Miss Granger? You wanted to ask something else?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Hermione. ʹSurely the whole point of Defence Against the Dark Arts is 
to practise defensive spells?ʹ 
ʹAre you a Ministry‐trained educational expert, Miss Granger?ʹ asked Professor 
Umbridge, in her falsely sweet voice. 
ʹNo, but ‐ʹ 
ʹWell then, Iʹm afraid you are not qualified to decide what the ʺwhole pointʺ of 
any class is. Wizards much older and cleverer than you have devised our new 

programme of study. You will be learning about defensive spells in a secure, 
risk‐free way ‐ʹ 
ʹWhat use is that?ʹ said Harry loudly. ʹIf weʹre going to be attacked, it wonʹt be in 
a ‐ʹ 
ʹHand, Mr Potter!ʹ sang Professor Umbridge. 
Harry thrust his fist in the air. Again, Professor Umbridge promptly turned away 
from him, but now several other people had their hands up, too. 
ʹAnd your name is?ʹ Professor Umbridge said to Dean. 
ʹDean Thomas.ʹ 
ʹWell, Mr Thomas?ʹ 
ʹWell, itʹs like Harry said, isnʹt it?ʹ said Dean. ʹIf weʹre going to be attacked, it 
wonʹt be risk free.ʹ 
ʹI repeat,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, smiling in a very irritating fashion at Dean, 
ʹdo you expect to be attacked during my classes?ʹ 
ʹNo, but ‐ʹ 
Professor Umbridge talked over him. ʹI do not wish to criticise the way things 
have been run in this school,ʹ she said, an unconvincing smile stretching her wide 
mouth, ʹbut you have been exposed to some very irresponsible wizards in this 
class, very irresponsible indeed ‐ not to mention,ʹ she gave a nasty little laugh, 
ʹextremely dangerous half‐breeds.ʹ 
ʹIf you mean Professor Lupin,ʹ piped up Dean angrily, ʹhe was the best we ever ‐ʹ 
ʹHand, Mr Thomas! As I was saying ‐ you have been introduced to spells that 
have been complex, inappropriate to your age group and potentially lethal. You 
have been frightened into believing that you are likely to meet Dark attacks 
every other day ‐ʹ 
ʹNo we havenʹt,ʹ Hermione said, ʹwe just ‐ʹ 
ʹYour hand is not up, Miss Granger!ʹ

Hermione put up her hand. Professor Umbridge turned away from her. 
ʹIt is my understanding that my predecessor not only performed illegal curses in 
front of you, he actually performed them on you.ʹ 
ʹWell, he turned out to be a maniac, didnʹt he?ʹ said Dean hotly. ʹMind you, we 
still learned loads.ʹ 
ʹYour hand is not up, Mr Thomas!ʹ trilled Professor Umbridge. ʹNow, it is the view 
of the Ministry that a theoretical knowledge will be more than sufficient to get 
you through your examination, which, after all, is what school is all about. And 
your name is?ʹ she added, staring at Parvati, whose hand had just shot up. 
ʹParvati Patil, and isnʹt there a practical bit in our Defence Against the Dark Arts 
OWL? Arenʹt we supposed to show that we can actually do the counter‐curses 
and things?ʹ 
ʹAs long as you have studied the theory hard enough, there is no reason why you 
should not be able to perform the spells under carefully controlled examination 
conditions,ʹ said Professor Umbridge dismissively. 
ʹWithout ever practising them beforehand?ʹ said Parvati incredulously. ʹAre you 
telling us that the first time weʹll get to do the spells will be during our exam?ʹ 
ʹI repeat, as long as you have studied the theory hard enough ‐ʹ 
ʹAnd what goodʹs theory going to be in the real world?ʹ said Harry loudly, his fist 
in the air again. 
Professor Umbridge looked up. 
ʹThis is school, Mr Potter, not the real world,ʹ she said softly. 
ʹSo weʹre not supposed to be prepared for whatʹs waiting for us out there?ʹ 
There is nothing waiting out there, Mr Potter.ʹ 
ʹOh, yeah?ʹ said Harry. His temper, which seemed to have been bubbling just 
beneath the surface all day, was reaching boiling point. 

ʹWho do you imagine wants to attack children like yourselves?ʹ enquired 
Professor Umbridge in a horribly honeyed voice. 
ʹHmm, letʹs think…ʹ said Harry in a mock thoughtful voice. ʹMaybe… Lord 
VoldemortT
Ron gasped; Lavender Brown uttered a little scream; Neville slipped sideways 
off his stool. Professor Umbridge, however, did not flinch. She was staring at 
Harry with a grimly satisfied expression on her face. 
Ten points from Gryffindor, Mr Potter.ʹ 
The classroom was silent and still. Everyone was staring at either Umbridge or 
Harry. 
ʹNow, let me make a few things quite plain.ʹ 
Professor Umbridge stood up and leaned towards them, her stubby‐fingered 
hands splayed on her desk. 
ʹYou have been told that a certain Dark wizard has returned from the dead ‐ʹ 
ʹHe wasnʹt dead,ʹ said Harry angrily, ʹbut yeah, heʹs returned!ʹ 
ʹMr‐Potter‐you‐have‐already‐lost‐your‐house‐ten‐points‐do‐not‐make‐matters‐
worse‐for‐yourself,ʹ said Professor Umbridge in one breath without looking at 
him. ʹAs I was saying, you have been informed that a certain Dark wizard is at 
large once again. This is a lie.ʹ 
ʹIt is NOT a lie!ʹ said Harry. ʹI saw him, I fought him!ʹ 
ʹDetention, Mr Potter!ʹ said Professor Umbridge triumphantly. Tomorrow 
evening. Five oʹclock. My office. I repeat, this is a lie. The Ministry of Magic 
guarantees that you are not in danger from any Dark wizard. If you are still 
worried, by all means come and see me outside class hours. If someone is 
alarming you with fibs about reborn Dark wizards, I would like to hear about it. I 
am here to help. I am your friend. And now, you will kindly continue your 
reading. Page five, ʺBasics for Beginnersʺ.ʹ 
Professor Umbridge sat down behind her desk. Harry, however, stood up. 
Everyone was staring at him; Seamus looked half‐scared, half‐fascinated. 

ʹHarry, no!ʹ Hermione whispered in a warning voice, tugging at his sleeve, but 
Harry jerked his arm out of her reach. 
ʹSo, according to you, Cedric Diggory dropped dead of his own accord, did he?ʹ 
Harry asked, his voice shaking. 
There was a collective intake of breath from the class, for none of them, apart 
from Ron and Hermione, had ever heard Harry talk about what had happened 
on the night Cedric had died. They stared avidly from Harry to Professor 
Umbridge, who had raised her eyes and was staring at him without a trace of a 
fake smile on her face. 
ʹCedric Diggoryʹs death was a tragic accident,ʹ she said coldly. 
ʹIt was murder,ʹ said Harry. He could feel himself shaking. He had hardly spoken 
to anyone about this, least of all thirty eagerly listening classmates. ʹVoldemort 
killed him and you know it.ʹ 
Professor Umbridgeʹs face was quite blank. For a moment, Harry thought she 
was going to scream at him. Then she said, in her softest, most sweetly girlish 
voice, ʹCome here, Mr Potter, dear.ʹ 
He kicked his chair aside, strode around Ron and Hermione and up to the 
teacherʹs desk. He could feel the rest of the class holding its breath. He felt so 
angry he did not care what happened next. 
Professor Umbridge pulled a small roll of pink parchment out of her handbag, 
stretched it out on the desk, dipped her quill into a bottle of ink and started 
scribbling, hunched over so that Harry could not see what she was writing. 
Nobody spoke. After a minute or so she rolled up the parchment and tapped it 
with her wand; it sealed itself seamlessly so that he could not open it. 
Take this to Professor McGonagall, dear,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, holding out 
the note to him. 
He took it from her without saying a word, turned on his heel and left the room, 
not even looking back at Ron and Hermione, slamming the classroom door shut 
behind him. He walked very fast along the corridor, the note to McGonagall 
clutched tight in his hand, and turning a corner walked slap into Peeves the 
poltergeist, a wide‐mouthed little man floating on his back in midair, juggling 
several inkwells. 

ʹWhy itʹs Potty Wee Potter!ʹ cackled Peeves, allowing two of the inkwells to fall to 
the ground where they smashed and spattered the walls with ink; Harry jumped 
backwards out of the way with a snarl. 
ʹGet out of it, Peeves.ʹ 
ʹOooh, Crackpotʹs feeling crankyʹ said Peeves, pursuing Harry along the corridor, 
leering as he zoomed along above him. ʹWhat is it this time, my fine Potty friend? 
Hearing voices? Seeing visions? Speaking in ‐ʹ Peeves blew a gigantic raspberry 
ʹ— tongues?ʹ 
ʹI said, leave me ALONE!ʹ Harry shouted, running down the nearest flight of 
stairs, but Peeves merely slid down the banister on his back beside him. 
ʹOh, most think heʹs barking, the potty wee lad, But some are more kindly and think heʹs 
just sad, But Peevesy knows better and says that heʹs mad —
ʹSHUT UP!ʹ 
A door to his left flew open and Professor McGonagall emerged from her office 
looking grim and slightly harassed. 
ʹWhat on earth are you shouting about, Potter?ʹ she snapped, as Peeves cackled 
gleefully and zoomed out of sight. ʹWhy arenʹt you in class?ʹ 
ʹIʹve been sent to see you,ʹ said Harry stiffly. 
ʹSent? What do you mean, sent?ʹ 
He held out the note from Professor Umbridge. Professor McGonagall took it 
from him, frowning, slit it open with a tap of her wand, stretched it out and 
began to read. Her eyes zoomed from side to side behind their square spectacles 
as she read what Umbridge had written, and with each line they became 
narrower. 
ʹCome in here, Potter.ʹ 
He followed her inside her study. The door closed automatically behind him. 
ʹWell?ʹ said Professor McGonagall, rounding on him. ʹIs this true?ʹ 

ʹIs what true?ʹ Harry asked, rather more aggressively than he had intended. 
ʹProfessor?ʹ he added, in an attempt to sound more polite. 
ʹIs it true that you shouted at Professor Umbridge?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYou called her a liar?ʹ 
ʹYes.ʹ 
ʹYou told her He Who Must Not Be Named is back?ʹ 
ʹYes.ʹ 
Professor McGonagall sat down behind her desk, watching Harry closely. Then 
she said, ʹHave a biscuit, Potter.ʹ 
ʹHave ‐ what?ʹ 
ʹHave a biscuit,ʹ she repeated impatiently, indicating a tartan tin lying on top of 
one of the piles of papers on her desk. ʹAnd sit down.ʹ 
There had been a previous occasion when Harry, expecting to be caned by 
Professor McGonagall, had instead been appointed by her to the Gryffindor 
Quidditch team. He sank into a chair opposite her and helped himself to a 
Ginger Newt, feeling just as confused and wrong‐footed as he had done on that 
occasion. 
Professor McGonagall set down Professor Umbridgeʹs note and looked very 
seriously at Harry. 
ʹPotter, you need to be careful.ʹ 
Harry swallowed his mouthful of Ginger Newt and stared at her. Her tone of 
voice was not at all what he was used to; it was not brisk, crisp and stern; it was 
low and anxious and somehow much more human than usual. 
ʹMisbehaviour in Dolores Umbridgeʹs class could cost you much more than 
house points and a detention.ʹ 
ʹWhat do you ‐?ʹ 

ʹPotter, use your common sense,ʹ snapped Professor McGonagall, with an abrupt 
return to her usual manner. ʹYou know where she comes from, you must know 
to whom she is reporting.ʹ 
The bell rang for the end of the lesson. Overhead and all around came the 
elephantine sounds of hundreds of students on the move. 
ʹIt says here sheʹs given you detention every evening this week, starting 
tomorrow,ʹ Professor McGonagall said, looking down at Umbridgeʹs note again. 
ʹEvery evening this week!ʹ Harry repeated, horrified. ʹBut, Professor, couldnʹt you 
‐?ʹ 
ʹNo, I couldnʹt,ʹ said Professor McGonagall flatly. 
ʹBut ‐ʹ 
ʹShe is your teacher and has every right to give you detention. You will go to her 
room at five oʹclock tomorrow for the first one. Just remember: tread carefully 
around Dolores Umbridge.ʹ 
ʹBut 1 was telling the truth!ʹ said Harry, outraged. ʹVoldemort is back, you know 
he is; Professor Dumbledore knows he is ‐ʹ 
ʹFor heavenʹs sake, Potter!ʹ said Professor McGonagall, straightening her glasses 
angrily (she had winced horribly when he had used Voldemortʹs name). ʹDo you 
really think this is about truth or lies? Itʹs about keeping your head down and 
your temper under control!ʹ 
She stood up, nostrils wide and mouth very thin, and Harry stood up, too. 
ʹHave another biscuit,ʹ she said irritably, thrusting the tin at him. 
ʹNo, thanks,ʹ said Harry coldly. 
ʹDonʹt be ridiculous,ʹ she snapped. •,••
He took one. 
ʹThanks,ʹ he said grudgingly. 
ʹDidnʹt you listen to Dolores Umbridgeʹs speech at the start‐of‐term feast, Potter?ʹ 

ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry. ʹYeah… she said… progress will be prohibited or… well, it 
meant that… that the Ministry of Magic is trying to interfere at Hogwarts.ʹ 
Professor McGonagall eyed him closely for a moment, then sniffed, walked 
around her desk and held open the door for him. 
ʹWell, Iʹm glad you listen to Hermione Granger at any rate,ʹ she said, pointing 
him out of her office. 
— CHAPTER THIRTEEN — 
Dinner in the Great Hall that night was not a pleasant experience for Harry. The 
news about his shouting match with Umbridge had travelled exceptionally fast 
even by Hogwartsʹ standards. He heard whispers all around him as he sat eating 
between Ron and Hermione. The funny thing was that none of the whisperers 
seemed to mind him overhearing what they were saying about him. On the 
contrary, it was as though they were hoping he would get angry and start 
shouting again, so that they could hear his story first‐hand. 
ʹHe says he saw Cedric Diggory murdered…ʹ 
ʹHe reckons he duelled with You‐Know‐Who…ʹ 
ʹCome off it…ʺ 
ʹWho does he think heʹs kidding?ʹ 
Tur‐Zease…ʺ 
ʹWhat I donʹt get,ʹ said Harry through clenched teeth, laying down his knife and 
fork (his hands were shaking too much to hold them steady), ʹis why they all 
believed the story two months ago when Dumbledore told them…ʹ 
ʹThe thing is, Harry, Iʹm not sure they did,ʹ said Hermione grimly. ʹOh, letʹs get 
out of here.ʹ 
She slammed down her own knife and fork; Ron looked longingly at his half‐
finished apple pie but followed suit. People stared at them all the way out of the 
Hall. 

ʹWhat dʹyou mean, youʹre not sure they believed Dumbledore?ʹ Harry asked 
Hermione when they reached the first‐floor landing. 
ʹLook, you donʹt understand what it was like after it happened,ʹ said Hermione 
quietly. ʹYou arrived back in the middle of the lawn clutching Cedricʹs dead 
body… none of us saw what happened in the maze… we just had Dumbledoreʹs 
word for it that You‐Know‐Who had come back and killed Cedric and fought 
you.ʹ 
ʹWhich is the truth!ʹ said Harry loudly. 
ʹI know it is, Harry, so will you please stop biting my head off?ʹ said Hermione 
wearily. ʹItʹs just that before the truth could sink in, everyone went home for the 
summer, where they spent two months reading about how youʹre a nutcase and 
Dumbledoreʹs going senile!ʹ 
Rain pounded on the windowpanes as they strode along the empty corridors 
back to Gryffindor Tower. Harry felt as though his first day had lasted a week, 
but he still had a mountain of homework to do before bed. A dull pounding pain 
was developing over his right eye. He glanced out of a rain‐washed window at 
the dark grounds as they turned into the Fat Ladyʹs corridor. There was still no 
light in Hagridʹs cabin. 
ʹMimbulus mimbletonia,ʹ said Hermione, before the Fat Lady could ask. The 
portrait swung open to reveal the hole behind it and the three of them scrambled 
through it. 
The common room was almost empty; nearly everyone was still down at dinner. 
Crookshanks uncoiled himself from an armchair and trotted to meet them, 
purring loudly, and when Harry, Ron and Hermione took their three favourite 
chairs at the fireside he leapt lightly on to Hermioneʹs lap and curled up there 
like a furry ginger cushion. Harry gazed into the flames, feeling drained and 
exhausted. 
ʹHow can Dumbledore have let this happen?ʹ Hermione cried suddenly, making 
Harry and Ron jump; Crookshanks leapt off her, looking affronted. She pounded 
the arms of her chair in fury, so that bits of stuffing leaked out of the holes. ʹHow 
can he let that terrible woman teach us? And in our OWL year, too!ʹ 

ʹWell, weʹve never had great Defence Against the Dark Arts teachers, have we?ʹ 
said Harry. ʹYou know what itʹs like, Hagrid told us, nobody wants the job; they 
say itʹs jinxed.ʹ 
ʹYes, but to employ someone whoʹs actually refusing to let us do magic! Whatʹs 
Dumbledore playing at?ʹ 
ʹAnd sheʹs trying to get people to spy for her,ʹ said Ron darkly. 
ʹRemember when she said she wanted us to come and tell her if we hear anyone 
saying You‐Know‐Whoʹs back?ʹ 
ʹOf course sheʹs here to spy on us all, thatʹs obvious, why else would Fudge have 
wanted her to come?ʹ snapped Hermione. 
ʹDonʹt start arguing again,ʹ said Harry wearily, as Ron opened his mouth to 
retaliate. ʹCanʹt we just… letʹs just do that homework, get it out of the way…ʹ 
They collected their schoolbags from a corner and returned to the chairs by the 
fire. People were coming back from dinner now. Harry kept his face averted 
from the portrait hole, but could still sense the stares he was attracting. 
ʹShall we do Snapeʹs stuff first?ʹ said Ron, dipping his quill into his ink. ʺThe 
properties… of moonstone… and its uses … in potion‐making…ʹʺ he muttered, 
writing the words across the top of his parchment as he spoke them. There.ʹ He 
underlined the title, then looked up expectantly at Hermione. 
ʹSo, what are the properties of moonstone and its uses in potion‐making?ʹ 
But Hermione was not listening; she was squinting over into the far corner of the 
room, where Fred, George and Lee Jordan were now sitting at the centre of a 
knot of innocent‐looking first‐years, all of whom were chewing something that 
seemed to have come out of a large paper bag that Fred was holding. 
ʹNo, Iʹm sorry, theyʹve gone too far,ʹ she said, standing up and looking positively 
furious. ʹCome on, Ron.ʹ 
ʹ1 ‐ what?ʹ said Ron, plainly playing for time. ʹNo ‐ come on, Hermione ‐ we canʹt 
tell them off for giving out sweets.ʹ 

ʹYou know perfectly well that those are bits of Nosebleed Nougat or ‐ or Puking 
Pastilles or ‐ʹ 
ʹFainting Fancies?ʹ Harry suggested quietly. 
One by one, as though hit over the head with an invisible mallet, the first‐years 
were slumping unconscious in their seats; some slid right on to the floor, others 
merely hung over the arms of their chairs, their tongues lolling out. Most of the 
people watching were laughing; Hermione, however, squared her shoulders and 
marched directly over to where Fred and George now stood with clipboards, 
closely observing the unconscious first‐years. Ron rose halfway out of his chair, 
hovered uncertainly for a moment or two, then muttered to Harry, ʹSheʹs got it 
under control,ʹ before sinking as low in his chair as his lanky frame permitted. 
Thatʹs enough!ʹ Hermione said forcefully to Fred and George, both of whom 
looked up in mild surprise. 
ʹYeah, youʹre right,ʹ said George, nodding, ʹthis dosage looks strong enough, 
doesnʹt it?ʹ 
ʹI told you this morning, you canʹt test your rubbish on students!ʹ 
ʹWeʹre paying them!ʹ said Fred indignantly. 
ʹI donʹt care, it could be dangerous!ʹ 
ʹRubbish,ʹ said Fred. 
ʹCalm down, Hermione, theyʹre fine!ʹ said Lee reassuringly as he walked from 
first‐year to first‐year, inserting purple sweets into their open mouths. 
ʹYeah, look, theyʹre coming round now,ʹ said George. 
A few of the first‐years were indeed stirring. Several looked so shocked to find 
themselves lying on the floor, or dangling off their chairs, that Harry was sure 
Fred and George had not warned them what the sweets were going to do. 
ʹFeel all right?ʹ said George kindly to a small dark‐haired girl lying at his feet. 
ʹI ‐ I think so,ʹ she said shakily. 

ʹExcellent,ʹ said Fred happily, but the next second Hermione had snatched both 
his clipboard and the paper bag of Fainting Fancies from his hands. 
ʹIt is NOT excellent!ʹ 
ʹCourse it is, theyʹre alive, arenʹt they?ʹ said Fred angrily. 
ʹYou canʹt do this, what if you made one of them really ill?ʹ 
ʹWeʹre not going to make them ill, weʹve already tested them all on ourselves, 
this is just to see if everyone reacts the same ‐ʹ 
ʹIf you donʹt stop doing it, Iʹm going to ‐ʹ 
ʹPut us in detention?ʹ said Fred, in an Iʹd‐like‐to‐see‐you‐try‐it voice. 
ʹMake us write lines?ʹ said George, smirking. 
Onlookers all over the room were laughing. Hermione drew herself up to her full 
height; her eyes were narrowed and her bushy hair seemed to crackle with 
electricity. 
ʹNo,ʹ she said, her voice quivering with anger, ʹbut I will write to your mother.ʹ 
ʹYou wouldnʹt,ʹ said George, horrified, taking a step back from her. 
ʹOh, yes, I would,ʹ said Hermione grimly. ʹ1 canʹt stop you eating the stupid 
things yourselves, but youʹre not to give them to the first‐years.ʹ 
Fred and George looked thunderstruck. It was clear that as far as they were 
concerned, Hermioneʹs threat was way below the belt. With a last threatening 
look at them, she thrust Fredʹs clipboard and the bag of Fancies back into his 
arms, and stalked back to her chair by the fire. 
Ron was now so low in his seat that his nose was roughly level with his knees. 
Thank you for your support, Ron,ʹ Hermione said acidly. 
ʹYou handled it fine by yourself,ʹ Ron mumbled. 
Hermione stared down at her blank piece of parchment for a few seconds, then 
said edgily, ʹOh, itʹs no good, I canʹt concentrate now. Iʹm going to bed.ʹ 

She wrenched her bag open; Harry thought she was about to put her books 
away, but instead she pulled out two misshapen woolly objects, placed them 
carefully on a table by the fireplace, covered them with a few screwed‐up bits of 
parchment and a broken quill and stood back to admire the effect. 
ʹWhat in the name of Merlin are you doing?ʹ said Ron, watching her as though 
fearful for her sanity. 
Theyʹre hats for house‐elves,ʹ she said briskly, now stuffing her books back into 
her bag. ʹI did them over the summer. Iʹm a really slow knitter without magic but 
now Iʹm back at school I should be able to make lots more.ʹ 
ʹYouʹre leaving out hats for the house‐elves?ʹ said Ron slowly. ʹAnd youʹre 
covering them up with rubbish first?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Hermione defiantly, swinging her bag on to her back. 
Thatʹs not on,ʹ said Ron angrily. ʹYouʹre trying to trick them into picking up the 
hats. Youʹre setting them free when they might not want to be free.ʹ 
ʹOf course they want to be free!ʹ said Hermione at once, though 
I 
her face was turning pink. ʹDonʹt you dare touch those hats, Ron!ʹ 
She turned on her heel and left. Ron waited until she had disappeared through 
the door to the girlsʹ dormitories, then cleared the rubbish off the woolly hats. 
ʹThey should at least see what theyʹre picking up,ʹ he said firmly. ʹAnyway…ʹ he 
rolled up the parchment on which he had written the title of Snapeʹs essay, 
ʹthereʹs no point trying to finish this now, I canʹt do it without Hermione, I 
havenʹt got a clue what youʹre supposed to do with moonstones, have you?ʹ 
Harry shook his head, noticing as he did so that the ache in his right temple was 
getting worse. He thought of the long essay on giant wars and the pain stabbed 
at him sharply. Knowing perfectly well that when the morning came, he would 
regret not finishing his homework that night, he piled his books back into his 
bag. 
ʹIʹm going to bed too.ʹ 

He passed Seamus on the way to the door leading to the dormitories, but did not 
look at him. Harry had a fleeting impression that Seamus had opened his mouth 
to speak, but he sped up and reached the soothing peace of the stone spiral 
staircase without having to endure any more provocation. 
* 
The following day dawned just as leaden and rainy as the previous one. Hagrid 
was still absent from the staff table at breakfast. 
ʹBut on the plus side, no Snape todayʹ said Ron bracingly. 
Hermione yawned widely and poured herself some coffee. She looked mildly 
pleased about something, and when Ron asked her what she had to be so happy 
about, she simply said, The hats have gone. Seems the house‐elves do want 
freedom after all.ʹ 
ʹ1 wouldnʹt bet on it,ʹ Ron told her cuttingly. They might not count as clothes. 
They didnʹt look anything like hats to me, more like woolly bladders.ʹ 
Hermione did not speak to him all morning. 
Double Charms was succeeded by double Transfiguration. Professor Flitwick 
and Professor McGonagall both spent the first fifteen minutes of their lessons 
lecturing the class on the importance of OWLs. 
ʹWhat you must remember,ʹ said little Professor Flitwick squeakily perched as 
ever on a pile of books so that he could see over the top of his desk, ʹis that these 
examinations may influence your futures for many years to come! If you have 
not already given serious thought to your careers, now is the time to do so. And 
in the meantime, Iʹm afraid, we shall be working harder than ever to ensure that 
you all do yourselves justice!ʹ 
They then spent over an hour revising Summoning Charms, which according to 
Professor Flitwick were bound to come up in their OWL, and he rounded off the 
lesson by setting them their largest ever amount of Charms homework. 
It was the same, if not worse, in Transfiguration. 
ʹYou cannot pass an OWL,ʹ said Professor McGonagall grimly, ʹwithout serious 
application, practice and study. I see no reason why everybody in this class 

should not achieve an OWL in Transfiguration as long as they put in the work.ʹ 
Neville made a sad little disbelieving noise. ʹYes, you too, Longbottom,ʹ said 
Professor McGonagall. Thereʹs nothing wrong with your work except lack of 
confidence. So… today we are starting Vanishing Spells. These are easier than 
Conjuring Spells, which you would not usually attempt until NEWT level, but 
they are still among the most difficult magic you will be tested on in your OWL.ʹ 
She was quite right; Harry found the Vanishing Spells horribly difficult. By the 
end of a double period neither he nor Ron had managed to vanish the snails on 
which they were practising, though Ron said hopefully he thought his looked a 
bit paler. Hermione, on the other hand, successfully vanished her snail on the 
third attempt, earning her a ten‐point bonus for Gryffindor from Professor 
McGonagall. She was the only person not given homework; everybody else was 
told to practise the spell overnight, ready for a fresh attempt on their snails the 
following afternoon. 
Now panicking slightly about the amount of homework they had to do, Harry 
and Ron spent their lunch hour in the library looking up the uses of moonstones 
in potion‐making. Still angry about Ronʹs slur on her woolly hats, Hermione did 
not join them. By the time they reached Care of Magical Creatures in the 
afternoon, Harryʹs head was aching again. 
The day had become cool and breezy, and as they walked down the sloping lawn 
towards Hagridʹs cabin on the edge of the Forbidden Forest, they felt the 
occasional drop of rain on their faces. Professor Grubbly‐Plank stood waiting for 
the class some ten yards from Hagridʹs front door, a long trestle table in front of 
her laden with twigs. As Harry and Ron reached her, a loud shout of laughter 
sounded behind them; turning, they saw Draco Malfoy striding towards them, 
surrounded by his usual gang of Slytherin cronies. He had clearly just said 
something highly amusing, because Crabbe, Goyle, Pansy Parkinson and the rest 
continued to snigger heartily as they gathered around the trestle table and, 
judging by the way they all kept looking over at Harry, he was able to guess the 
subject of the joke without too much difficulty. 
ʹEveryone here?ʹ barked Professor Grubbly‐Plank, once all the Slytherins and 
Gryffindors had arrived. ʹLetʹs crack on then. Who can tell me what these things 
are called?ʹ 
She indicated the heap of twigs in front of her. Hermioneʹs hand shot into the air. 
Behind her back, Malfoy did a buck‐toothed imitation of her jumping up and 

down in eagerness to answer a question. Pansy Parkinson gave a shriek of 
laughter that turned almost at once into a scream, as the twigs on the table leapt 
into the air and revealed themselves to be what looked like tiny pixie‐ish 
creatures made of wood, each with knobbly brown arms and legs, two twiglike 
fingers at the end of each hand and a funny flat, barklike face in which a pair of 
beetle‐brown eyes glittered. 
ʹOooooh!ʹ said Parvati and Lavender, thoroughly irritating Harry. Anyone would 
have thought Hagrid had never shown them impressive creatures; admittedly, 
the Flobberworms had been a bit dull, but the Salamanders and Hippogriffs had 
been interesting enough, and the Blast‐Ended Skrewts perhaps too much so. 
ʹKindly keep your voices down, girls!ʹ said Professor Grubbly‐Plank sharply, 
scattering a handful of what looked like brown rice among the stick‐creatures, 
who immediately fell upon the food. ʹSo ‐ anyone know the names of these 
creatures? Miss Granger?ʹ 
ʹBowtruckles,ʹ said Hermione. Theyʹre tree‐guardians, usually live in wand‐trees.ʹ 
ʹFive points for Gryffindor,ʹ said Professor Grubbly‐Plank. ʹYes, these are 
Bowtruckles, and as Miss Granger rightly says, they generally live in trees whose 
wood is of wand quality. Anybody know what they eat?ʹ 
ʹWoodlice,ʹ said Hermione promptly which explained why what Harry had taken 
to be grains of brown rice were moving. ʹBut fairy eggs if they can get them.ʹ 
ʹGood girl, take another five points. So, whenever you need leaves or wood from 
a tree in which a Bowtruckle lodges, it is wise to have a gift of woodlice ready to 
distract or placate it. They may not look dangerous, but if angered they will try 
to gouge at human eyes with their fingers, which, as you can see, are very sharp 
and not at all desirable near the eyeballs. So if youʹd like to gather closer, take a 
few woodlice and a Bowtruckle ‐ I have enough here for one between three ‐ you 
can study them more closely. I want a sketch from each of you with all body‐
parts labelled by the end of the lesson.ʹ 
The class surged forwards around the trestle table. Harry deliberately circled 
around the back so that he ended up right next to Professor Grubbly‐Plank. 
ʹWhereʹs Hagrid?ʹ he asked her, while everyone else was choosing Bowtruckles. 

ʹNever you mind,ʹ said Professor Grubbly‐Plank repressively, which had been 
her attitude last time Hagrid had failed to turn up for a class, too. Smirking all 
over his pointed face, Draco Malfoy leaned across Harry and seized the largest 
Bowtruckle. 
ʹMaybe,ʹ said Malfoy in an undertone, so that only Harry could hear him, ʹthe 
stupid great oafʹs got himself badly injured.ʹ 
ʹMaybe you will if you donʹt shut up,ʹ said Harry out of the side of his mouth. 
ʹMaybe heʹs been messing with stuff thatʹs too big for him, if you get my drift.ʹ 
Malfoy walked away, smirking over his shoulder at Harry, who felt suddenly 
sick. Did Malfoy know something? His father was a Death Eater after all; what if 
he had information about Hagridʹs fate that had not yet reached the ears of the 
Order? He hurried back around the table to Ron and Hermione who were 
squatting on the grass some distance away and attempting to persuade a 
Bowtruckle to remain still long enough for them to draw it. Harry pulled out 
parchment and quill, crouched down beside the others and related in a whisper 
what Malfoy had just said. 
ʹDumbledore would know if some thing had happened to Hagrid,ʹ said 
Hermione at once. ʹItʹs just playing into Malfoyʹs hands to look worried; it tells 
him we donʹt know exactly whatʹs going on. Weʹve got to ignore him, Harry. 
Here, hold the Bowtruckle for a moment, just so I can draw its face…ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ came Malfoyʹs clear drawl from the group nearest them, ʹFather was talking 
to the Minister just a couple of days ago, you know, and it sounds as though the 
Ministryʹs really determined to crack down on sub‐standard teaching in this 
place. So even if that overgrown moron does show up again, heʹll probably be 
sent packing straightaway.ʹ 
ʹOUCH!ʹ 
Harry had gripped the Bowtruckle so hard that it had almost snapped, and it had 
just taken a great retaliatory swipe at his hand with its sharp fingers, leaving two 
long deep cuts there. Harry dropped it. Crabbe and Goyle, who had already been 
guffawing at the idea of Hagrid being sacked, laughed still harder as the 
Bowtruckle set off at full tilt towards the Forest, a little moving stick‐man soon 
swallowed up among the tree roots. When the bell echoed distantly over the 
grounds, Harry rolled up his blood‐stained Bowtruckle picture and marched off 

to Herbology with his hand wrapped in Hermioneʹs handkerchief, and Malfoyʹs 
derisive laughter still ringing in his ears. 
ʹIf he calls Hagrid a moron one more time…ʹ said Harry through gritted teeth. 
ʹHarry, donʹt go picking a row with Malfoy, donʹt forget, heʹs a prefect now, he 
could make life difficult for you…ʹ 
ʹWow, I wonder what itʹd be like to have a difficult life?ʹ said Harry sarcastically. 
Ron laughed, but Hermione frowned. Together, they traipsed across the 
vegetable patch. The sky still appeared unable to make up its mind whether it 
wanted to rain or not. 
ʹI just wish Hagrid would hurry up and get back, thatʹs all,ʹ said Harry in a low 
voice, as they reached the greenhouses. ʹAnd donʹt say that Grubbly‐Plank 
womanʹs a better teacher!ʹ he added threateningly. 
ʹI wasnʹt going to,ʹ said Hermione calmly. 
ʹBecause sheʹll never be as good as Hagrid,ʹ said Harry firmly, fully aware that he 
had just experienced an exemplary Care of Magical Creatures lesson and was 
thoroughly annoyed about it. 
The door of the nearest greenhouse opened and some fourth‐years spilled out of 
it, including Ginny. 
ʹHi,ʹ she said brightly as she passed. A few seconds later, Luna Lovegood 
emerged, trailing behind the rest of the class, a smudge of earth on her nose, and 
her hair tied in a knot on the top of her head. When she saw Harry, her 
prominent eyes seemed to bulge excitedly and she made a beeline straight for 
him. Many of his classmates turned curiously to watch. Luna took a great breath 
and then said, without so much as a preliminary hello, ʹI believe He Who Must 
Not Be Named is back and I believe you fought him and escaped from him.ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ right,ʹ said Harry awkwardly. Luna was wearing what looked like a pair of 
orange radishes for earrings, a fact that Parvati and Lavender seemed to have 
noticed, as they were both giggling and pointing at her earlobes. 
ʹYou can laugh,ʹ Luna said, her voice rising, apparently under the impression 
that Parvati and Lavender were laughing at what she had said rather than what 

she was wearing, ʹbut people used to believe there were no such things as the 
Blibbering Humdinger or the Crumple‐Horned Snorkack!ʹ 
ʹWell, they were right, werenʹt they?ʹ said Hermione impatiently. There werenʹt 
any such things as the Blibbering Humdinger or the Crumple‐Horned Snorkack.ʹ 
Luna gave her a withering look and flounced away, radishes swinging madly 
Parvati and Lavender were not the only ones hooting with laughter now. 
ʹDʹyou mind not offending the only people who believe me?ʹ Harry asked 
Hermione as they made their way into class. 
ʹOh, for heavenʹs sake, Harry, you can do better than her,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹGinnyʹs told me all about her; apparently, sheʹll only believe in things as long as 
thereʹs no proof at all. Well, I wouldnʹt expect anything else from someone whose 
father runs The Quibbler.ʹ 
Harry thought of the sinister winged horses he had seen on the night he had 
arrived and how Luna had said she could see them too. His spirits sank slightly. 
Had she been lying? But before he could devote much more thought to the 
matter, Ernie Macmillan had stepped up to him. 
ʹI want you to know, Potter,ʹ he said in a loud, carrying voice, ʹthat itʹs not only 
weirdos who support you. I personally believe you one hundred per cent. My 
family have always stood firm behind Dumbledore, and so do I.ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ thanks very much, Ernie,ʹ said Harry, taken aback but pleased. Ernie might 
be pompous on occasions like this, but Harry was in a mood to deeply appreciate 
a vote of confidence from somebody who did not have radishes dangling from 
their ears. Ernieʹs words had certainly wiped the smile from Lavender Brownʹs 
face and as he turned to talk to Ron and Hermione, Harry caught Seamuss 
expression, which looked both confused and defiant. 
To nobodyʹs surprise, Professor Sprout started their lesson by lecturing them 
about the importance of OWLs. Harry wished all the teachers would stop doing 
this; he was starting to get an anxious, twisted feeling in his stomach every time 
he remembered how much homework he had to do, a feeling that worsened 
dramatically when Professor Sprout gave them yet another essay at the . end of 
class. Tired and smelling strongly of dragon dung, Professor Sproutʹs preferred 
type of fertiliser, the Gryffindors trooped back up to the castle an hour and a half 
later, none of them talking very much; it had been another long day. 

As Harry was starving, and he had his first detention with Umbridge at five 
oʹclock, he headed straight for dinner without dropping off his bag in Gryffindor 
Tower so that he could bolt something down before facing whatever she had in 
store for him. He had barely reached the entrance of the Great Hall, however, 
when a loud and angry voice yelled, ʹOi, Potter!ʹ 
ʹWhat now?ʹ he muttered wearily, turning to face Angelina Johnson, who looked 
as though she was in a towering temper. 
ʹIʹll tell you what now,ʹ she said, marching straight up to him and poking him 
hard in the chest with her finger. ʹHow come youʹve landed yourself in detention 
for five oʹclock on Friday?ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry. ʹWhy… oh yeah, Keeper tryouts!ʹ 
ʹNow he remembers!ʹ snarled Angelina. ʹDidnʹt I tell you I wanted to do a tryout 
with the whole team, and find someone who fitted in with everyone! Didnʹt I tell you 
Iʹd booked the Quidditch pitch specially? And now youʹve decided youʹre not 
going to be there!ʹ 
ʹI didnʹt decide not to be there!ʹ said Harry, stung by the injustice of these words. 
ʹI got detention from that Umbridge woman, just because I told her the truth 
about You‐Know‐Who.ʹ 
ʹWell, you can just go straight to her and ask her to let you off on Friday,ʹ said 
Angelina fiercely, ʹand 1 donʹt care how you do it. Tell her You‐Know‐Whoʹs a 
figment of your imagination if you like, just make sure you re there}ʹ
She turned on her heel and stormed away. 
ʹYou know what?ʹ Harry said to Ron and Hermione as they entered the Great 
Hall. ʹI think weʹd better check with Puddlemere United whether Oliver Woodʹs 
been killed during a training session, because Angelina seems to be channelling 
his spirit.ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou reckon are the odds of Umbridge letting you off on Friday?ʹ said 
Ron sceptically, as they sat down at the Gryffindor table. 
ʹLess than zero,ʹ said Harry glumly, tipping lamb chops on to his plate and 
starting to eat. ʹBetter try, though, hadnʹt I? Iʹll offer to do two more detentions or 
something, I dunno…ʺ He swallowed a mouthful of potato and added, ʹI hope 

she doesnʹt keep me too long this evening. You realise weʹve got to write three 
essays, practise Vanishing Spells for McGonagall, work out a counter‐charm for 
Flitwick, finish the Bowtruckle drawing and start that stupid dream diary for 
Trelawney?ʹ 
Ron moaned and for some reason glanced up at the ceiling. 
ʹAnd it looks like itʹs going to rain.ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs that got to do with our homework?ʹ said Hermione, her eyebrows raised. 
ʹNothing,ʹ said Ron at once, his ears reddening. 
At five to five Harry bade the other two goodbye and set off for Umbridgeʹs 
office on the third floor. When he knocked on the door she called, ʹCome in,ʹ in a 
sugary voice. He entered cautiously, looking around. 
He had known this office under three of its previous occupants. 
In the days when Gilderoy Lockhart had lived here it had been plastered in 
beaming portraits of himself. When Lupin had occupied it, it was likely you 
would meet some fascinating Dark creature in a cage or tank if you came to call. 
In the impostor Moodyʹs days it had been packed with various instruments and 
artefacts for the detection of wrongdoing and concealment. 
Now, however, it looked totally unrecognisable. The surfaces had all been 
draped in lacy covers and cloths. There were several vases full of dried flowers, 
each one residing on its own doily, and on one of the walls was a collection of 
ornamental plates, each decorated with a large technicolour kitten wearing a 
different bow around its neck. These were so foul that Harry stared at them, 
transfixed, until Professor Umbridge spoke again. 
ʹGood evening, Mr Potter.ʹ 
Harry started and looked around. He had not noticed her at first because she was 
wearing a luridly flowered set of robes that blended only too well with the 
tablecloth on the desk behind her. 
ʹEvening, Professor Umbridge,ʹ Harry said stiffly. 

ʹWell, sit down,ʹ she said, pointing towards a small table draped in lace beside 
which she had drawn up a straight‐backed chair. A piece of blank parchment lay 
on the table, apparently waiting for him. 
ʹEr,ʹ said Harry, without moving. ʹProfessor Umbridge. Er ‐ before we start, I ‐ I 
wanted to ask you a… a favour.ʹ 
Her bulging eyes narrowed. 
ʹOh, yes?ʹ 
ʹWell, Iʹm… Iʹm in the Gryffindor Quidditch team. And I was supposed to be at 
the tryouts for the new Keeper at five oʹclock on Friday and I was ‐ was 
wondering whether I could skip detention that night and do it ‐ do it another 
night… instead…ʹ 
He knew long before he reached the end of his sentence that it was no good. 
ʹOh, no,ʹ said Umbridge, smiling so widely that she looked as though she had 
just swallowed a particularly juicy fly. ʹOh, no, no, no. This is your punishment 
for spreading evil, nasty, attention‐seeking stories, Mr Potter, and punishments 
certainly cannot be adjusted to suit the guilty oneʹs convenience. No, you will 
come 
•r here at five oʹclock tomorrow, and the next day, and on Friday too, and you 
will do your detentions as planned. I think it rather a good thing that you are 
missing something you really want to do. It ought to reinforce the lesson I am 
trying to teach you.ʹ 
Harry felt the blood surge to his head and heard a thumping noise in his ears. So 
he told ʹevil, nasty, attention‐seeking stonesʹ, did he? 
She was watching him with her head slightly to one side, still smiling widely, as 
though she knew exactly what he was thinking and was waiting to see whether 
he would start shouting again. With a massive effort, Harry looked away from 
her, dropped his schoolbag beside the straight‐backed chair and sat down. 
There,ʹ said Umbridge sweetly, ʹweʹre getting better at controlling our temper 
already, arenʹt we? Now, you are going to be doing some lines for me, Mr Potter. 
No, not with your quill,ʹ she added, as Harry bent down to open his bag. ʹYouʹre 
going to be using a rather special one of mine. Here you are.ʹ 

She handed him a long, thin black quill with an unusually sharp point. 
ʹI want you to write, / must not tell lies,ʹ she told him softly. 
ʹHow many times?ʹ Harry asked, with a creditable imitation of politeness. 
ʹOh, as long as it takes for the message to sink in,ʹ said Umbridge sweetly. ʹOff 
you go.ʹ 
She moved over to her desk, sat down and bent over a stack of parchment that 
looked like essays for marking. Harry raised the sharp black quill, then realised 
what was missing. 
ʹYou havenʹt given me any ink,ʹ he said. 
ʹOh, you wonʹt need ink,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, with the merest suggestion of 
a laugh in her voice. 
Harry placed the point of the quill on the paper and wrote: / must not tell lies. 
He let out a gasp of pain. The words had appeared on the parchment in what 
appeared to be shining red ink. At the same time, the words had appeared on the 
back of Harrys right hand, cut into his skin as though traced there by a scalpel ‐ 
yet even as he stared at the shining cut, the skin healed over again, leaving the 
place where it had been slightly redder than before but quite smooth. 
Harry looked round at Umbridge. She was watching him, her wide, toadlike 
mouth stretched in a smile. 
ʹYes?ʹ 
ʹNothing,ʹ said Harry quietly. 
He looked back at the parchment, placed the quill on it once more, wrote I must 
not tell lies, and felt the searing pain on the back of his hand for a second time; 
once again, the words had been cut into his skin; once again, they healed over 
seconds later. 
And on it went. Again and again Harry wrote the words on the parchment in 
what he soon came to realise was not ink, but his own blood. And, again and 

again, the words were cut into the back of his hand, healed, and reappeared the 
next time he set quill to parchment. 
Darkness fell outside Umbridgeʹs window. Harry did not ask when he would be 
allowed to stop. He did not even check his watch. He knew she was watching 
him for signs of weakness and he was not going to show any, not even if he had 
to sit there all night, cutting open his own hand with this quill… 
ʹCome here,ʹ she said, after what seemed hours. 
He stood up. His hand was stinging painfully. When he looked down at it he 
saw that the cut had healed, but that the skin there was red raw. 
ʹHand,ʹ she said. 
He extended it. She took it in her own. Harry repressed a shudder as she touched 
him with her thick, stubby fingers on which she wore a number of ugly old rings. 
Tut, tut, 1 donʹt seem to have made much of an impression yet,ʹ she said, smiling. 
ʹWell, weʹll just have to try again tomorrow evening, wonʹt we? You may go.ʹ 
Harry left her office without a word. The school was quite deserted; it was surely 
past midnight. He walked slowly up the corridor, then, when he had turned the 
corner and was sure she would not hear him, broke into a run. 
* 
He had not had time to practise Vanishing Spells, had not written a single dream 
in his dream diary and had not finished the drawing of the Bowtruckle, nor had 
he written his essays. He skipped breakfast next morning to scribble down a 
couple of made‐up dreams for Divination, their first lesson, and was surprised to 
find a dishevelled Ron keeping him company. 
ʹHow come you didnʹt do it last night?ʹ Harry asked, as Ron stared wildly around 
the common room for inspiration. Ron, who had been fast asleep when Harry got 
back to the dormitory, muttered something about ʹdoing other stuff, bent low 
over his parchment and scrawled a few words. 
Thatʹll have to do,ʹ he said, slamming the diary shut. ʹIʹve said I dreamed 1 was 
buying a new pair of shoes, she canʹt make anything weird out of that, can she?ʹ 

They hurried off to North Tower together. 
ʹHow was detention with Umbridge, anyway? What did she make you do?ʹ 
Harry hesitated for a fraction of a second, then said, ʹLines.ʹ 
Thatʹs not too bad, then, eh?ʹ said Ron. 
ʹNope,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹHey ‐ I forgot ‐ did she let you off for Friday?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry. 
Ron groaned sympathetically. 
It was another bad day for Harry; he was one of the worst in Transfiguration, not 
having practised Vanishing Spells at all. He had to give up his lunch hour to 
complete the picture of the Bowtruckle and, meanwhile, Professors McGonagall, 
Grubbly‐Plank and Sinistra gave them yet more homework, which he had no 
prospect of finishing that evening because of his second detention with 
Umbridge. To cap it all, Angelina Johnson tracked him down at dinner again 
and, on learning that he would not be able to attend Fridayʹs Keeper tryouts, told 
him she was not at all impressed by his attitude and that she expected players 
who wished to remain on the team to put training before their other 
commitments. 
ʹIʹm in detention!ʹ Harry yelled after her as she stalked away. ʹDʹyou think Iʹd 
rather be stuck in a room with that old toad or playing Quidditch?ʹ 
ʹAt least itʹs only lines,ʹ said Hermione consolingly, as Harry sank back on to his 
bench and looked down at his steak and kidney pie, which he no longer fancied 
very much. ʹItʹs not as if itʹs a dreadful punishment, really…ʺ 
Harry opened his mouth, closed it again and nodded. He was not really sure 
why he was not telling Ron and Hermione exactly what was happening in 
Umbridgeʹs room: he only knew that he did not want to see their looks of horror; 
that would make the whole thing seem worse and therefore more difficult to 
face. He also felt dimly that this was between himself and Umbridge, a private 
battle of wills, and he was not going to give her the satisfaction of hearing that he 
had complained about it. 

ʹI canʹt believe how much homework weʹve got,ʹ said Ron miserably. 
ʹWell, why didnʹt you do any last night?ʹ Hermione asked him. ʹWhere were you, 
anyway?ʹ 
ʹI was… I fancied a walk,ʹ said Ron shiftily. 
Harry had the distinct impression that he was not alone in concealing things at 
the moment. 
* 
The second detention was just as bad as the previous one. The skin on the back of 
Harryʹs hand became irritated more quickly now and was soon red and 
inflamed. Harry thought it unlikely that it would keep healing as effectively for 
long. Soon the cut would remain etched into his hand and Umbridge would, 
perhaps, be satisfied. He let no gasp of pain escape him, however, and from the 
moment of entering the room to the moment of his dismissal, again past 
midnight, he said nothing but ʹgood eveningʹ and ʹgoodnightʹ. 
His homework situation, however, was now desperate, and when he returned to 
the Gryffindor common room he did not, though exhausted, go to bed, but 
opened his books and began Snapeʹs moonstone essay. It was half past two by 
the time he had finished it. He knew he had done a poor job, but there was no 
help for it; unless he had something to give in he would be in detention with 
Snape next. He then dashed off answers to the questions Professor McGonagall 
had set them, cobbled together something on the proper handling of Bowtruckles 
for Professor Grubbly‐Plank, and staggered up to bed, where he fell fully clothed 
on top of the covers and fell asleep immediately. 
X
Thursday passed in a haze of tiredness. Ron seemed very sleepy too, though 
Harry could not see why he should be. Harryʹs third detention passed in the 
same way as the previous two, except that after two hours the words ʹ/ must not 
tell liesʹ did not fade from the back of Harrys hand, but remained scratched there, 
oozing droplets of blood. The pause in the pointed quillʹs scratching made 
Professor Umbridge look up. 
ʹAh,ʹ she said softly, moving around her desk to examine his hand herself. ʹGood. 
That ought to serve as a reminder to you, oughtnʹt it? You may leave for tonight.ʹ 

ʹDo I still have to come back tomorrow?ʹ said Harry picking up his schoolbag 
with his left hand rather than his smarting right one. 
ʹOh yes,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, smiling as widely as before. ʹYes, I think we 
can etch the message a little deeper with another eveningʹs work.ʹ 
Harry had never before considered the possibility that there might be another 
teacher in the world he hated more than Snape, but as he walked back towards 
Gryffindor Tower he had to admit he had found a strong contender. Sheʹs evil, 
he thought, as he climbed a staircase to the seventh floor, sheʹs an evil, twisted, 
mad old‐ 
ʹRon?ʹ 
He had reached the top of the stairs, turned right and almost walked into Ron, 
who was lurking behind a statue of Lachlan the Lanky, clutching his broomstick. 
He gave a great leap of surprise when he saw Harry and attempted to hide his 
new Cleansweep Eleven behind his back. 
ʹWhat are you doing?ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ nothing. What are you doing?ʹ 
Harry frowned at him. 
ʹCome on, you can tell me! What are you hiding here for?ʹ 
ʹIʹm ‐ Iʹm hiding from Fred and George, if you must know,ʹ said Ron. They just 
went past with a bunch of first‐years, I bet theyʹre testing stuff on them again. I 
mean, they canʹt do it in the common room now, can they, not with Hermione 
there.ʹ 
He was talking in a very fast, feverish way. 
ʹBut what have you got your broom for, you havenʹt been flying, have you?ʹ 
Harry asked. 
ʹI ‐ well ‐ well, OK, Iʹll tell you, but donʹt laugh, all right?ʹ Ron said defensively, 
turning redder with every second. ʹI ‐ I thought Iʹd try out for Gryffindor Keeper 
now Iʹve got a decent broom. There. Go on. Laugh.ʹ 

ʹIʹm not laughing,ʹ said Harry. Ron blinked. ʹItʹs a brilliant idea! Itʹd be really cool 
if you got on the team! Iʹve never seen you play Keeper, are you good?ʹ 
ʹIʹm not bad,ʹ said Ron, who looked immensely relieved at Harryʹs reaction. 
ʹCharlie, Fred and George always made me Keep for them when they were 
training during the holidays.ʹ 
ʹSo youʹve been practising tonight?ʹ 
ʹEvery evening since Tuesday… just on my own, though. Iʹve been trying to 
bewitch Quaffles to fly at me, but it hasnʹt been easy and I donʹt know how much 
use itʹll be.ʹ Ron looked nervous and anxious. ʹFred and George are going to 
laugh themselves stupid when I turn up for the tryouts. They havenʹt stopped 
taking the mickey out of me since I got made a prefect.ʹ 
ʹI wish I was going to be there,ʹ said Harry bitterly, as they set off together 
towards the common room. 
ʹYeah, so do ‐ Harry, whatʹs that on the back of your hand?ʹ 
Harry, who had just scratched his nose with his free right hand, tried to hide it, 
but had as much success as Ron with his Cleansweep. 
ʹItʹs just a cut ‐ itʹs nothing ‐ itʹs ‐ʹ 
But Ron had grabbed Harryʹs forearm and pulled the back of Harryʹs hand up 
level with his eyes. There was a pause, during which he stared at the words 
carved into the skin, then, looking sick, he released Harry. 
ʹI thought you said she was just giving you lines?ʹ 
Harry hesitated, but after all, Ron had been honest with him, so he told Ron the 
truth about the hours he had been spending in Umbridgeʹs office. 
The old hag!ʹ Ron said in a revolted whisper as they came to a halt in front of the 
Fat Lady, who was dozing peacefully with her head against her frame. ʹSheʹs 
sick! Go to McGonagall, say something!ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry at once. ʹIʹm not giving her the satisfaction of knowing sheʹs got 
to me.ʹ 

ʹGot to you? You canʹt let her get away with this!ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know how much power McGonagallʹs got over her,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹDumbledore, then, tell Dumbledore!ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry flatly. 
ʹWhy not?ʹ 
ʹHeʹs got enough on his mind,ʹ said Harry, but that was not the true reason. He 
was not going to go to Dumbledore for help when Dumbledore had not spoken 
to him once since June. 
ʹWell, 1 reckon you should ‐ʹ Ron began, but he was interrupted by the Fat Lady, 
who had been watching them sleepily and now burst out, ʹAre you going to give 
me the password or will 1 have to stay awake all night waiting for you to finish 
your conversation?ʹ 
* 
Friday dawned sullen and sodden as the rest of the week. Though Harry 
automatically glanced towards the staff table when he entered the Great Hall, it 
was without any real hope of seeing Hagrid, and he turned his mind 
immediately to his more pressing problems, such as the mountainous pile of 
homework he had to do and the prospect of yet another detention with 
Umbridge. 
Two things sustained Harry that day. One was the thought that it was almost the 
weekend; the other was that, dreadful though his final detention with Umbridge 
was sure to be, he had a distant view of the Quidditch pitch from her window 
and might, with luck, be able to see something of Ronʹs tryout. These were rather 
feeble rays of light, it was true, but Harry was grateful for anything that might 
lighten his present darkness; he had never had a worse first week of term at 
Hogwarts. 
At five oʹclock that evening he knocked on Professor Umbridgeʹs office door for 
what he sincerely hoped would be the final time, and was told to enter. The 
blank parchment lay ready for him on the lace‐covered table, the pointed black 
quill beside it. 

ʹYou know what to do, Mr Potter,ʹ said Umbridge, smiling sweetly at him. 
Harry picked up the quill and glanced through the window. If he just shifted his 
chair an inch or so to the right… on the pretext of shifting himseli closer to the 
table, he managed it. He now had a distant view of the Gryffindor Quidditch 
team soaring up and down the pitch, while half a dozen black figures stood at 
the foot of the three high goalposts, apparently awaiting their turn to Keep. It 
was impossible to tell which one was Ron at this distance. 
I must not tell lies, Harry wrote. The cut in the back of his right hand opened and 
began to bleed atresh. 
I must not tell lies. The cut dug deeper, stinging and smarting. 
I must not tell lies. Blood trickled down his wrist. 
He chanced another glance out of the window. Whoever was defending the 
goalposts now was doing a very poor job indeed. Katie Bell scored twice in the 
few seconds Harry dared to watch. Hoping very much that the Keeper wasnʹt 
Ron, he dropped his eyes back to the parchment shining with blood. 
I must not tell lies.
I must not tell lies.
He looked up whenever he thought he could risk it; when he could hear the 
scratching of Umbridges quill or the opening of a desk drawer. The third person 
to try out was pretty good, the fourth was terrible, the fifth dodged a Bludger 
exceptionally well but then fumbled an easy save. The sky was darkening, and 
Harry doubted he would be able to see the sixth and seventh people at all. 
I must not tell lies. 
I must not tell lies.
The parchment was now dotted with drops of blood from the back of his hand, 
which was searing with pain. When he next looked up, night had fallen and the 
Quidditch pitch was no longer visible. 
ʹLetʹs see if youʹve got the message yet, shall we?ʹ said Umbridges soft voice half 
an hour later. 

She moved towards him, stretching out her short ringed fingers for his arm. And 
then, as she took hold of him to examine the words now cut into his skin, pain 
seared, not across the back of his hand, but across the scar on his forehead. At the 
same time, he had a most peculiar sensation somewhere around his midriff. 
He wrenched his arm out of her grip and leapt to his feet, staring at her. She 
looked back at him, a smile stretching her wide, slack mouth. 
ʹYes, it hurts, doesnʹt it?ʹ she said softly. 
He did not answer. His heart was thumping very hard and fast. Was she talking 
about his hand or did she know what he had just felt in his forehead? 
ʹWell, I think Iʹve made my point, Mr Potter. You may go.ʹ 
He caught up his schoolbag and left the room as quickly as he could. 
Stay calm, he told himself, as he sprinted up the stairs. Stay calm, it doesnʹt 
necessarily mean what you think it means… 
ʹMimbulus mimbletonia!ʹ he gasped at the Fat Lady, who swung forwards once 
more. 
A roar of sound greeted him. Ron came running towards him, beaming all over 
his face and slopping Butterbeer down his front from the goblet he was 
clutching. 
ʹHarry, I did it, Iʹm in, Iʹm Keeper!ʹ 
ʹWhat? Oh ‐ brilliant!ʹ said Harry, trying to smile naturally, while his heart 
continued to race and his hand throbbed and bled. 
ʹHave a Butterbeer.ʹ Ron pressed a bottle on him. ʹ1 canʹt believe it ‐ whereʹs 
Hermione gone?ʹ 
ʹSheʹs there,ʹ said Fred, who was also swigging Butterbeer, and pointed to an 
armchair by the fire. Hermione was dozing in it, her drink tipping precariously 
in her hand. 
ʹWell, she said she was pleased when I told her,ʹ said Ron, looking slightly put 
out. 

ʹLet her sleep,ʹ said George hastily. It was a few moments before Harry noticed 
that several of the first‐years gathered around them bore unmistakeable signs of 
recent nosebleeds. 
ʹCome here, Ron, and see if Oliverʹs old robes fit you,ʹ called Katie Bell, ʹwe can 
take off his name and put yours on instead…ʹ 
As Ron moved away, Angelina came striding up to Harry. 
ʹSorry I was a bit short with you earlier, Potter,ʹ she said abruptly. ʹItʹs stressful 
this managing lark, you know, Iʹm starting to think I was a bit hard on Wood 
sometimes.ʹ She was watching Ron over the rim of her goblet with a slight frown 
on her face. 
ʹLook, I know heʹs your best mate, but heʹs not fabulous,ʹ she said bluntly. ʹI think 
with a bit of training heʹll be all right, though. He comes from a family of good 
Quidditch players. Iʹm banking on him turning out to have a bit more talent than 
he showed today, to be honest. Vicky Frobisher and Geoffrey Hooper both flew 
better this evening, but Hoopers a real whiner, heʹs always moaning about 
something or other, and Vickyʹs involved in all sorts of societies. She admitted 
herself that if training clashed with her Charms Club sheʹd put Charms first. 
Anyway, weʹre having a practice session at two oʹclock tomorrow, so just make 
sure youʹre there this time. And do me a favour and help Ron as much as you 
can, OK?ʹ 
He nodded, and Angelina strolled back to Alicia Spinnet. Harry moved over to 
sit next to Hermione, who awoke with a jerk as he put down his bag. 
ʹOh, Harry, itʹs you… good about Ron, isnʹt it?ʹ she said blearily. ʹIʹm just so‐so ‐ 
so tired,ʹ she yawned. ʹI was up until one oʹclock making more hats. Theyʹre 
disappearing like mad!ʹ 
And sure enough, now that he looked, Harry saw that there were woolly hats 
concealed all around the room where unwary elves might accidentally pick them 
up. 
ʹGreat,ʹ said Harry distractedly; if he did not tell somebody soon, he would burst. 
ʹListen, Hermione, I was just up in Umbridgeʹs office and she touched my arm 
Hermione listened closely. When Harry had (inished, she said slowly ʹYouʹre 
worried You‐Know‐Whoʹs controlling her like he controlled Quirrell?ʹ 

ʹWell,ʹ said Harry, dropping his voice, ʹitʹs a possibility, isnʹt it?ʹ 
ʹI suppose so,ʹ said Hermione, though she sounded unconvinced. ʹBut I donʹt 
think he can be possessing her the way he possessed Quirrell, I mean, heʹs 
properly alive again now, isnʹt he, heʹs got his own body, he wouldnʹt need to 
share someone elseʹs. He could have her under the Imperius Curse, I suppose…ʺ 
Harry watched Fred, George and Lee Jordan juggling empty Butterbeer bottles 
for a moment. Then Hermione said, ʹBut last year your scar hurt when nobody 
was touching you, and didnʹt Dumbledore say it had to do with what You‐
Know‐Who was feeling at the time? I mean, maybe this hasnʹt got anything to do 
with 
Umbridge at all, maybe itʹs just coincidence it happened while you were with 
her?ʹ 
ʹSheʹs evil,ʹ said Harry flatly. Twisted.ʹ 
ʹSheʹs horrible, yes, but… Harry, I think you ought to tell Dumbledore your scar 
hurt.ʹ 
It was the second time in two days he had been advised to go to Dumbledore 
and his answer to Hermione was just the same as his answer to Ron. 
ʹIʹm not bothering him with this. Like you just said, its not a big deal. Itʹs been 
hurting on and off all summer ‐ it was just a bit worse tonight, thatʹs all ‐ʹ 
ʹHarry, Iʹm sure Dumbledore would want to be bothered by this ‐ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, before he could stop himself, ʹthatʹs the only bit of me 
Dumbledore cares about, isnʹt it, my scar?ʹ 
ʹDonʹt say that, itʹs not true!ʹ 
ʹI think Iʹll write and tell Sirius about it, see what he thinks ‐ʹ 
ʹHarry, you canʹt put something like that in a letter!ʹ said Hermione, looking 
alarmed. ʹDonʹt you remember, Moody told us to be careful what we put in 
writing! We just canʹt guarantee owls arenʹt being intercepted any more!ʹ 

ʹAll right, all right, I wonʹt tell him, then!ʹ said Harry irritably. He got to his feet. 
ʹIʹm going to bed. Tell Ron for me, will you?ʹ 
ʹOh no,ʹ said Hermione, looking relieved, ʹif youʹre going that means I can go too, 
without being rude. Iʹm absolutely exhausted and I want to make some more 
hats tomorrow. Listen, you can help me if you like, itʹs quite fun, Iʹm getting 
better, I can do patterns and bobbles and all sorts of things now.ʹ 
Harry looked into her face, which was shining with glee, and tried to look as 
though he was vaguely tempted by this offer. 
ʹEr… no, I donʹt think I will, thanks,ʹ he said. ʹEr‐ not tomorrow. Iʹve got loads of 
homework to do…ʹ 
And he traipsed off to the boysʹ stairs, leaving her looking slightly disappointed. 
— CHAPTER FOURTEEN — 
Percy and Padfoot
Harry was first to wake up in his dormitory next morning. He lay for a moment 
watching dust swirl in the ray of sunlight coming through the gap in his four‐
posters hangings, and savoured the thought that it was Saturday. The first week 
of term seemed to have dragged on for ever, like one gigantic History of Magic 
lesson. 
Judging by the sleepy silence and the freshly minted look of that beam of 
sunlight, it was just after daybreak. He pulled open the curtains around his bed, 
got up and started to dress. The only sound apart from the distant twittering of 
birds was the slow, deep breathing of his fellow Gryffindors. He opened his 
schoolbag carefully, pulled out parchment and quill and headed out of the 
dormitory for the common room. 
Making straight for his favourite squashy old armchair beside the now extinct 
fire, Harry settled himself down comfortably and unrolled his parchment while 
looking around the room. The detritus of crumpled‐up bits of parchment, old 
Gobstones, empty ingredient jars and sweet wrappers that usually covered the 
common room at the end of each day was gone, as were all Hermioneʹs elf hats. 
Wondering vaguely how many elves had now been set free whether they wanted 
to be or not, Harry uncorked his ink bottle, dipped his quill into it, then held it 
suspended an inch above the smooth yellowish surface of his parchment, 

thinking hard… but after a minute or so he found himself staring into the empty 
grate, at a complete loss for what to say. 
He could now appreciate how hard it had been for Ron and Hermione to write 
him letters over the summer. How was he supposed to tell Sirius everything that 
had happened over the past week and pose all the questions he was burning to 
ask without giving potential letter‐thieves a lot of information he did not want 
them to have? 
He sat quite motionless for a while, gazing into the fireplace,: then, finally 
coming to a decision, he dipped his quill into the ink bottle once more and set it 
resolutely on the parchment. 
Dear Snuffles,
Hope youʹre OK, the first week back hereʹs been terrible, Iʹm really
glad itʹs the weekend.
Weʹve got a new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Umbridge. Sheʹs 
nearly as nice as your mum. Iʹm writing because that thing I wrote to you about last 
summer happened again last night when I was doing a detention with Umbridge. 
Weʹre all missing our biggest friend, we hope heʹll be back soon. 
Please write back quickly.
Best,
Harry
Harry reread the letter several times, trying to see it from the point of view of an 
outsider. He could not see how they would know what he was talking about ‐ or 
who he was talking to ‐ just from reading this letter. He did hope Sirius would 
pick up the hint about Hagrid and tell them when he might be back. Harry did 
not want to ask directly in case it drew too much attention to what Hagrid might 
be up to while he was not at Hogwarts. 
Considering it was a very short letter, it had taken a long time to write; sunlight 
had crept halfway across the room while he had been working on it and he could 
now hear distant sounds of movement from the dormitories above. Sealing the 

parchment carefully, he climbed through the portrait hole and headed off for the 
Owlery. 
ʹI would not go that way if I were you,ʹ said Nearly Headless Nick, drifting 
disconcertingly through a wall just ahead of Harry as he walked down the 
passage. ʹPeeves is planning an amusing joke on the next person to pass the bust 
of Paracelsus halfway down the corridor.ʹ 
ʹDoes it involve Paracelsus falling on top of the persons head?ʹ asked Harry. 
ʹFunnily enough, it does,ʹ said Nearly Headless Nick in a bored voice. ʹSubtlety 
has never been Peevesʹs strong point. Iʹm off to try and find the Bloody Baron… 
he might be able to put a stop to it… see you, Harry 
ʹYeah, bye,ʹ said Harry and instead of turning right, he turned left, taking a 
longer but safer route up to the Owlery. His spirits rose as he walked past 
window after window showing brilliantly blue sky; he had training later, he 
would be back on the Quidditch pitch at last. 
Something brushed his ankles. He looked down and saw the caretakerʹs skeletal 
grey cat, Mrs Norns, slinking past him. She turned lamplike yellow eyes on him 
for a moment before disappearing behind a statue of Wilfred the Wistful. 
ʹIʹm not doing anything wrong,ʹ Harry called after her. She had the 
unmistakeable air of a cat that was ofi to report to her boss, yet Harry could not 
see why; he was perfectly entitled to walk up to the Owlery on a Saturday 
morning. 
The sun was high in the sky now and when Harry entered the Owlery the 
glassless windows dazzled his eyes; thick silvery beams of sunlight crisscrossed 
the circular room in which hundreds of owls nestled on rafters, a little restless in 
the early‐morning light, some clearly just returned from hunting. The straw‐
covered floor crunched a little as he stepped across tiny animal bones, craning 
his neck for a sight of Hedwig. 
There you are,ʹ he said, spotting her somewhere near the very top of the vaulted 
ceiling. ʹGet down here, Iʹve got a letter for you.ʺ 
With a low hoot she stretched her great white wings and soared down on to his 
shoulder. 

ʹRight, I know this says Snuffles on the outside,ʹ he told her, giving her the letter 
to clasp in her beak and, without knowing exactly why, whispering, ʹbut itʹs for 
Sirius, OK?ʹ 
She blinked her amber eyes once and he took that to mean that she understood. 
ʹSafe flight, then,ʹ said Harry and he carried her to one of the windows; with a 
momentʹs pressure on his arm, Hedwig took off into the blindingly bright sky. 
He watched her until she became a tiny black speck and vanished, then switched 
his gaze to Hagridʹs hut, clearly visible from this window, and just as clearly 
uninhabited, the chimney smokeless, the curtains drawn. 
The treetops of the Forbidden Forest swayed in a light breeze. Harry watched 
them, savouring the fresh air on his face, thinking about Quidditch later… then 
he saw it. A great, reptilian winged horse, just like the ones pulling the Hogwarts 
carriages, with leathery black wings spread wide like a pterodactylʹs, rose up out 
of the trees like a grotesque, giant bird. It soared in a great circle, then plunged 
back into the trees. The whole thing had happened so quickly, Harry could 
hardly believe what he had seen, except that his heart was hammering madly. 
The Owlery door opened behind him. He leapt in shock and, turning quickly, 
saw Cho Chang holding a letter and a parcel in her hands. 
ʹHi,ʹ said Harry automatically. 
ʹOh… hi,ʹ she said breathlessly. ʹI didnʹt think anyone would be up here this 
early… I only remembered five minutes ago, itʹs my mumʹs birthday.ʹ 
She held up the parcel. 
ʹRight,ʹ said Harry. His brain seemed to have jammed. He wanted to say 
something funny and interesting, but the memory of that terrible winged horse 
was fresh in his mind. 
ʹNice day,ʹ he said, gesturing to the windows. His insides seemed to shrivel with 
embarrassment. The weather. He was talking about the weather… 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Cho, looking around for a suitable owl. ʹGood Quidditch conditions. 
1 havenʹt been out all week, have you?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry. 

Cho had selected one of the school barn owls. She coaxed it down on to her arm 
where it held out an obliging leg so that she could attach the parcel. 
ʹHey, has Gryffindor got a new Keeper yet?ʹ she asked. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry. ʹItʹs my friend Ron Weasley, dʹyou know him?ʹ 
The Tornados‐hater?ʹ said Cho rather coolly. ʹIs he any good?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, ʹI think so. I didnʹt see his tryout, though, I was in detention.ʹ 
Cho looked up, the parcel only half‐attached to the owlʹs legs. 
That Umbridge womanʹs foul,ʹ she said in a low voice. ʹPutting you in detention 
just because you told the truth about how ‐ how ‐ how he died. Everyone heard 
about it, it was all over the school. You were really brave standing up to her like 
that.ʹ 
Harryʹs insides re‐inflated so rapidly he felt as though he might actually float a 
few inches off the dropping‐strewn floor. Who cared about a stupid flying horse; 
Cho thought he had been really brave. For a moment, he considered accidentally‐
on‐purpose showing her his cut hand as he helped her tie her parcel on to her 
owl… but the very instant this thrilling thought occurred, the Owlery door 
opened again. 
Filch the caretaker came wheezing into the room. There were purple patches on 
his sunken, veined cheeks, his jowls were aquiver and his thin grey hair 
dishevelled; he had obviously run here. Mrs Norris came trotting at his heels, 
gazing up at the owls overhead and mewing hungrily. There was a restless 
shifting of wings from above and a large brown owl snapped his beak in a 
menacing fashion. 
ʹAha!ʹ said Filch, taking a flat‐footed step towards Harry, his pouchy cheeks 
trembling with anger. ʹIʹve had a tip‐off that you are intending to place a massive 
order for DungbombsP 
Harry folded his arms and stared at the caretaker. 
ʹWho told you 1 was ordering Dungbombs?ʹ 

Cho was looking from Harry to Filch, also frowning; the barn owl on her arm, 
tired of standing on one leg, gave an admonitory hoot but she ignored it. 
ʹI have my sources,ʹ said Filch in a self‐satisfied hiss. ʹNow hand over whatever it 
is youʹre sending.ʹ 
Feeling immensely thankful that he had not dawdled in posting off the letter, 
Harry said, ʹI canʹt, itʹs gone.ʹ 
ʹGone?ʹ said Filch, his face contorting with rage. 
ʹGone,ʹ said Harry calmly. 
Filch opened his mouth furiously, mouthed for a few seconds, then raked Harrys 
robes with his eyes. 
ʹHow do I know you havenʹt got it in your pocket?ʹ 
ʹBecause ‐ʹ 
ʹI saw him send it,ʹ said Cho angrily. 
Filch rounded on her. 
ʹYou saw him ‐?ʹ 
Thatʹs right, I saw him,ʹ she said fiercely. 
There was a moments pause in which Filch glared at Cho and Cho glared right 
back, then the caretaker turned on his heel and shuffled back towards the door. 
He stopped with his hand on the handle and looked back at Harry. 
ʹIf I get so much as a whiff of a Dungbomb 
He stumped off down the stairs. Mrs Norris cast a last longing look at the owls 
and followed him. 
Harry and Cho looked at each other. 
Thanks,ʹ Harry said. 

ʹNo problem,ʹ said Cho, finally fixing the parcel to the barn owlʹs other leg, her 
face slightly pink. ʹYou werenʹt ordering Dungbombs, were you?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹI wonder why he thought you were, then?ʹ she said as she carried the owl to the 
window. 
Harry shrugged. He was quite as mystified by that as she was, though oddly it 
was not bothering him very much at the moment. 
They left the Owlery together. At the entrance of a corridor that led towards the 
west wing of the castle, Cho said, ʹIʹm going this way. Well, Iʹll… Iʹll see you 
around, Harry.ʹ 
ʹYeah… see you.ʹ 
She smiled at him and departed. Harry walked on, feeling quietly elated. He had 
managed to have an entire conversation with her and not embarrassed himself 
once… you were really brave standing up to her like that… Cho had called him 
brave… she did not hate him for being alive… 
Ol course, she had preferred Cedric, he knew that… though if heʹd only asked 
her to the Ball before Cedric had, things might have turned out differently… she 
had seemed sincerely sorry that sheʹd had to refuse when Harry asked her… 
ʹMorning,ʹ Harry said brightly to Ron and Hermione as he joined them at the 
Gryffindor table in the Great Hall. 
ʹWhat are you looking so pleased about?ʹ said Ron, eyeing Harry in surprise. 
ʹErm… Quidditch later,ʹ said Harry happily, pulling a large platter of bacon and 
eggs towards him. 
ʹOh… yeah…ʹ said Ron. He put down the piece of toast he was eating and took a 
large swig of pumpkin juice. Then he said, ʹListen… you donʹt fancy going out a 
bit earlier with me, do you? Just to ‐ er ‐ give me some practice before training? 
So I can, you know, get my eye in a bit.ʹ 
ʹYeah, OK,ʹ said Harry. 

ʹLook, 1 donʹt think you should,ʹ said Hermione seriously. ʹYouʹre both really 
behind on homework as it ‐ʹ 
But she broke off; the morning post was arriving and, as usual, the Daily Prophet 
was soaring towards her in the beak of a screech owl, which landed perilously 
close to the sugar bowl and held out a leg. Hermione pushed a Knut into its 
leather pouch, took the newspaper, and scanned the front page critically as the 
owl took off. 
ʹAnything interesting?ʹ said Ron. Harry grinned, knowing Ron was keen to keep 
her off the subject of homework. 
ʹNo,ʹ she sighed, ʹjust some guff about the bass player in the Weird Sisters getting 
married.ʹ 
Hermione opened the paper and disappeared behind it. Harry devoted himself 
to another helping of eggs and bacon. Ron was staring up at the high windows, 
looking slightly preoccupied. 
ʹWait a moment,ʹ said Hermione suddenly. ʹOh no… Sirius!ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs happened?ʹ said Harry, snatching at the paper so violently it ripped 
down the middle, with him and Hermione each holding one half. 
ʹʺThe Ministry of Magic has received a tip‐off from a reliable source that Sirius Black, 
notorious mass murderer… blah blah blah… is currently hiding in London!ʺʹ 
Hermione read from her half in an anguished whisper. 
ʹLucius Malfoy Iʹll bet anything,ʹ said Harry in a low, furious voice. ʹHe did 
recognise Sirius on the platform…ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Ron, looking alarmed. ʹYou didnʹt say ‐ʹ 
ʹShh!ʹ said the other two. 
… ʺMinistry warns wizarding community that Black is very dangerous… killed 
thirteen people… broke out of Azkaban …ʺ the usual rubbish,ʹ Hermione concluded, 
laying down her half of the paper and looking fearfully at Harry and Ron. ʹWell, 
he just wonʹt be able to leave the house again, thatʹs all,ʹ she whispered. 
ʹDumbledore did warn him not to.ʹ 

Harry looked down glumly at the bit ol the Prophet he had torn off. Most of the 
page was devoted to an advertisement for Madam Malkins Robes for All 
Occasions, which was apparently having a sale. 
ʹHey!ʹ he said, flattening it down so Hermione and Ron could see it. ʹLook at this!ʹ 
ʹIʹve got all the robes I want,ʹ said Ron. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry. ʹLook… this little piece here…ʹ 
Ron and Hermione bent closer to read it; the item was barely an inch long and 
placed right at the bottom of a column. It was headlined: 
TRESPASS AT MINISTRY
Sturgis Podmore, 38, of number two, Laburnum Gardens, Clapham, has appeared in 
front of the Wizengamot charged with trespass and attempted robbery at the Ministry of 
Magic on 3ISI August. Podmore was arrested by Ministry of Magic watchwizard Eric 
Munch, who found him attempting to force his way through a top‐security door at one 
oʹclock in the morning. Podmore, who refused to speak in his own defence, was convicted 
on both charges and sentenced to six months in Azkaban. 
ʹSturgis Podmore?ʹ said Ron slowly. ʹHeʹs that bloke who looks like his headʹs 
been thatched, isnʹt he? Heʹs one of the Ord—ʹ 
ʹRon, shh!ʹ said Hermione, casting a terrified look around them. 
ʹSix months in Azkaban!ʹ whispered Harry, shocked. ʹJust for trying to get 
through a door!ʹ 
ʹDonʹt be silly, it wasnʹt just for trying to get through a door. What on earth was 
he doing at the Ministry of Magic at one oʹclock in the morning?ʹ breathed 
Hermione. 
ʹDʹyou reckon he was doing something for the Order?ʹ Ron muttered. 
ʹWait a moment…ʹ said Harry slowly. ʹSturgis was supposed to come and see us 
off, remember?ʹ 
The other two looked at him. 

ʹYeah, he was supposed to be part of our guard going to Kingʹs Cross, 
remember? And Moody was all annoyed because he didnʹt turn up; so he 
couldnʹt have been on a job for them, could he?ʹ 
ʹWell, maybe they didnʹt expect him to get caught,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹIt could be a frame‐up!ʹ Ron exclaimed excitedly. ʹNo ‐ listen!ʹ he went on, 
dropping his voice dramatically at the threatening look on Hermioneʹs face. The 
Ministry suspects heʹs one of Dumbledoreʹs lot so ‐ I dunno ‐ they lured him to 
the Ministry, and he wasnʹt trying to get through a door at all! Maybe theyʹve just 
made something up to get him!ʹ 
There was a pause while Harry and Hermione considered this. Harry thought it 
seemed far‐fetched. Hermione, on the other hand, looked rather impressed. 
ʹDo you know, I wouldnʹt be at all surprised if that were true.ʹ 
She folded up her half of the newspaper thoughtfully. As Harry laid down his 
knife and fork, she seemed to come out of a reverie. 
ʹRight, well, I think we should tackle that essay for Sprout on self‐fertilising 
shrubs first and if weʹre lucky weʹll be able to start McGonagallʹs Inanimatus 
Conjurus Spell before lunch…ʹ 
Harry felt a small twinge of guilt at the thought of the pile of homework 
awaiting him upstairs, but the sky was a clear, exhilarating blue, and he had not 
been on his Firebolt for a week… 
ʹI mean, we can do it tonight,ʹ said Ron, as he and Harry walked down the 
sloping lawns towards the Quidditch pitch, their broomsticks over their 
shoulders, and with Hermioneʹs dire warnings that they would fail all their 
OWLs still ringing in their ears. ʹAnd weʹve got tomorrow. She gets too worked 
up about work, thatʹs her trouble…ʹ There was a pause and he added, in a 
slightly more anxious tone, ʹDʹyou think she meant it when she said we werenʹt 
copying from her?ʹ 
ʹYeah, I do,ʹ said Harry. ʹStill, this is important, too, weʹve got to practise if we 
want to stay on the Quidditch team…ʹ 
ʹYeah, thatʹs right,ʹ said Ron, in a heartened tone. ʹAnd we have got plenty of 
time to do it all…ʹ 

As they approached the Quidditch pitch, Harry glanced over to his right to 
where the trees of the Forbidden Forest were swaying darkly. Nothing flew out 
of them; the sky was empty but for a few distant owls fluttering around the 
Owlery tower. He had enough to worry about; the flying horse wasnʹt doing him 
any harm; he pushed it out of his mind. 
They collected balls from the cupboard in the changing room and set to work, 
Ron guarding the three tall goalposts, Harry playing Chaser and trying to get the 
Quaffle past Ron. Harry thought Ron was pretty good; he blocked three‐quarters 
of the goals Harry attempted to put past him and played better the longer they 
practised. After a couple of hours they returned to the castle for lunch ‐ during 
which Hermione made it quite clear she thought they were irresponsible — then 
returned to the Quidditch pitch for the real training session. All their teammates 
but Angelina were already in the changing room when they entered. 
ʹAll right, Ron?ʹ said George, winking at him. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Ron, who had become quieter and quieter all the way down to the 
pitch. 
ʹReady to show us all up, Ickle Prefect?ʹ said Fred, emerging tousle‐haired from 
the neck of his Quidditch robes, a slightly malicious grin on his face. 
ʹShut up,ʹ said Ron, stony‐faced, pulling on his own team robes for the first time. 
They fitted him well considering they had been Oliver Woodʹs, who was rather 
broader in the shoulder. 
ʹOK, everyone,ʹ said Angelina, entering from the Captainʹs office, already 
changed. ʹLetʹs get to it; Alicia and Fred, if you can just bring out the ball crate for 
us. Oh, and there are a couple of people out there watching but I want you to just 
ignore them, all right?ʹ 
Something in her would‐be casual voice made Harry think he might know who 
the uninvited spectators were, and sure enough, when they left the changing 
room for the bright sunlight of the pitch it was to a storm of catcalls and jeers 
from the Slytherin Quidditch team and assorted hangers‐on, who were grouped 
halfway up the empty stands and whose voices echoed loudly around the 
stadium. 
ʹWhatʹs that Weasleyʹs riding?ʹ Malfoy called in his sneering drawl. ʹWhy would 
anyone put a flying charm on a mouldy old log like that?ʹ 

Crabbe, Goyle and Pansy Parkinson guffawed and shrieked with laughter. Ron 
mounted his broom and kicked off from the ground and Harry followed him, 
watching his ears turn red from behind. 
ʹIgnore them,ʹ he said, accelerating to catch up with Ron, ʹweʹll see whoʹs 
laughing after we play them…ʹ 
ʹExactly the attitude I want, Harry,ʹ said Angelina approvingly, soaring around 
them with the Quaffle under her arm and slowing to hover on the spot in front of 
her airborne team. ʹOK, everyone, weʹre going to start with some passes just to 
warm up, the whole team please ‐ʹ 
ʹHey, Johnson, whatʹs with that hairstyle, anyway?ʹ shrieked Pansy Parkinson 
from below. ʹWhy would anyone want to look like theyʹve got worms coming out 
of their head?ʹ 
Angelina swept her long braided hair out of her face and continued calmly, 
ʹSpread out, then, and letʹs see what we can do…ʹ 
Harry reversed away from the others to the far side of the pitch. Ron fell back 
towards the opposite goal. Angelina raised the Quaffle with one hand and threw 
it hard to Fred, who passed to George, who passed to Harry, who passed to Ron, 
who dropped it. 
The Slytherins, led by Malfoy, roared and screamed with laughter. Ron, who had 
pelted towards the ground to catch the Quaffle before it landed, pulled out of the 
dive untidily, so that he slipped sideways on his broom, and returned to playing 
height, blushing. Harry saw Fred and George exchange looks, but 
uncharacteristically neither of them said anything, for which he was grateful. 
ʹPass it on, Ron,ʹ called Angelina, as though nothing had happened. 
Ron threw the Quaffle to Alicia, who passed back to Harry, who passed to 
George… 
ʹHey, Potter, howʹs your scar feeling?ʹ called Malfoy. ʹSure you donʹt need a lie 
down? It must be, what, a whole week since you were in the hospital wing, thatʹs 
a record for you, isnʹt it?ʹ 

George passed to Angelina; she reverse‐passed to Harry, who had not been 
expecting it, but caught it in the very tips of his fingers and passed it quickly to 
Ron, who lunged for it and missed by inches. 
ʹCome on now, Ron,ʹ said Angelina crossly, as he dived for the ground again, 
chasing the Quaffle. ʹPay attention.ʹ 
It would have been hard to say whether Ronʹs face or the Quaffle was a deeper 
scarlet when he again returned to playing height. Malfoy and the rest of the 
Slytherin team were howling with laughter. 
On his third attempt, Ron caught the Quaffle; perhaps out of relief he passed it 
on so enthusiastically that it soared straight through Katieʹs outstretched hands 
and hit her hard in the face. 
ʹSorry!ʹ Ron groaned, zooming forwards to see whether he had done any 
damage. 
ʹGet back in position, sheʹs fine!ʹ barked Angelina. ʹBut as youʹre passing to a 
teammate, do try not to knock her off her broom, wonʹt you? Weʹve got Bludgers 
for that!ʹ 
Katieʹs nose was bleeding. Down below, the Slytherins were stamping their feet 
and jeering. Fred and George converged on Katie. 
ʹHere, take this,ʹ Fred told her, handing her something small and purple from out 
of his pocket, ʹitʹll clear it up in no time.ʹ 
ʹAll right,ʹ called Angelina, ʹFred, George, go and get your bats and a Bludger. 
Ron, get up to the goalposts. Harry, release the Snitch when I say so. Weʹre going 
to aim for Ronʹs goal, obviously.ʹ 
Harry zoomed off after the twins to fetch the Snitch. 
ʹRonʹs making a right pigʹs ear of things, isnʹt he?ʹ muttered George, as the three 
of them landed at the crate containing the balls and opened it to extract one of 
the Bludgers and the Snitch. 
ʹHeʹs just nervous,ʹ said Harry, ʹhe was fine when I was practising with him this 
morning.ʹ 

ʹYeah, well, I hope he hasnʹt peaked too soon,ʹ said Fred gloomily. 
They returned to the air. When Angelina blew her whistle, Harry released the 
Snitch and Fred and George let fly the Bludger. From that moment on, Harry was 
barely aware of what the others were doing. It was his job to recapture the tiny 
fluttering golden ball that was worth a hundred and fifty points to the Seekerʹs 
team and doing so required enormous speed and skill. He accelerated, rolling 
and swerving in and out of the Chasers, the warm autumn air whipping his face, 
and the distant yells of the Slytherins so much meaningless roaring in his ears… 
but too soon, the whistle brought him to a halt again. 
ʹStop ‐ stop ‐ STOP!ʹ screamed Angelina. ʹRon ‐ youʹre not covering your middle 
post!ʹ 
Harry looked round at Ron, who was hovering in front of the left‐hand hoop, 
leaving the other two completely unprotected. 
ʹOh… sorry…ʹ 
ʹYou keep shifting around while youʹre watching the Chasers!ʹ said Angelina. 
ʹEither stay in centre position until you have to move to defend a hoop, or else 
circle the hoops, but donʹt drift vaguely off to one side, thatʹs how you let in the 
last three goals!ʹ 
ʹSorry…ʹ Ron repeated, his red face shining like a beacon against the bright blue 
sky. 
ʹAnd Katie, canʹt you do something about that nosebleed?ʹ 
ʹItʹs just getting worse!ʹ said Katie thickly, attempting to stem the flow with her 
sleeve. 
Harry glanced round at Fred, who was looking anxious and checking his 
pockets. He saw Fred pull out something purple, examine it for a second and 
then look round at Katie, evidently horror‐struck. 
ʹWell, letʹs try again,ʹ said Angelina. She was ignoring the Slytherins, who had 
now set up a chant of ʹGryffindor are losers, Gryffindor are losers,ʹ but there was a 
certain rigidity about her seat on the broom nevertheless. 

This time they had been flying for barely three minutes when Angelinas whistle 
sounded. Harry, who had just sighted the Snitch circling the opposite goalpost, 
pulled up feeling distinctly aggrieved. 
ʹWhat now?ʹ he said impatiently to Alicia, who was nearest. 
ʹKatie,ʹ she said shortly. 
Harry turned and saw Angelina, Fred and George all flying as fast as they could 
towards Katie. Harry and Alicia sped towards her, too. It was plain that 
Angelina had stopped training just in time; Katie was now chalk white and 
covered in blood. 
ʹShe needs the hospital wing,ʹ said Angelina. 
ʹWeʹll take her,ʹ said Fred. ʹShe ‐ er ‐ might have swallowed a Blood Blisterpod by 
mistake ‐ʹ 
ʹWell, thereʹs no point continuing with no Beaters and a Chaser gone,ʹ said 
Angelina glumly as Fred and George zoomed off towards the castle supporting 
Katie between them. ʹCome on, letʹs go and get changed.ʹ 
The Slytherins continued to chant as they trailed back into the changing rooms. 
ʹHow was practice?ʹ asked Hermione rather coolly half an hour later, as Harry 
and Ron climbed through the portrait hole into the Gryffindor common room. 
ʹIt was ‐ʹ Harry began. 
ʹCompletely lousy,ʹ said Ron in a hollow voice, sinking into a chair beside 
Hermione. She looked up at Ron and her frostiness seemed to melt. 
ʹWell, it was only your first one,ʹ she said consolingly, ʹitʹs bound to take time to ‐ʹ 
ʹWho said it was me who made it lousy?ʹ snapped Ron. 
ʹNo one,ʹ said Hermione, looking taken aback, ʹI thought ‐ʹ 
ʹYou thought I was bound to be rubbish?ʹ 
ʹNo, of course I didnʹt! Look, you said it was lousy so 1 just ‐ʹ 

ʹIʹm going to get started on some homework,ʹ said Ron angrily and stomped off 
to the staircase to the boysʹ dormitories and vanished from sight. Hermione 
turned to Harry. 
ʹWas he lousy?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry loyally. 
Hermione raised her eyebrows. 
ʹWell, 1 suppose he couldʹve played better,ʹ Harry muttered, ʹbut it was only the 
first training session, like you said…ʹ 
Neither Harry nor Ron seemed to make much headway with their homework 
that night. Harry knew Ron was too preoccupied with how badly he had 
performed at Quidditch practice and he himself was having difficulty in getting 
the ʹGryffindor are losersʹ chant out of his head. 
They spent the whole of Sunday in the common room, buried in their books 
while the room around them filled up, then emptied. It was another clear, fine 
day and most of their fellow Gryffindors spent the day out in the grounds, 
enjoying what might well be some of the last sunshine that year. By the evening, 
Harry felt as though somebody had been beating his brain against the inside of 
his skull. 
ʹYou know, we probably should try and get more homework done during the 
week,ʹ Harry muttered to Ron, as they finally laid aside Professor McGonagallʹs 
long essay on the Inanimatus Conjurus Spell and turned miserably to Professor 
Sinistraʹs equally long and difficult essay about Jupiterʹs many moons. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Ron, rubbing slightly bloodshot eyes and throwing his fifth spoiled 
bit of parchment into the fire beside them. ʹListen… shall we just ask Hermione if 
we can have a look at what sheʹs done?ʹ 
Harry glanced over at her; she was sitting with Crookshanks on her lap and 
chatting merrily to Ginny as a pair of knitting needles flashed in midair in front 
of her, now knitting a pair of shapeless elf socks. 
ʹNo,ʹ he said heavily, ʹyou know she wonʹt let us.ʹ 

And so they worked on while the sky outside the windows became steadily 
darker. Slowly, the crowd in the common room began to thin again. At half past 
eleven, Hermione wandered over to them, yawning. 
ʹNearly done?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Ron shortly. 
ʹJupiterʹs biggest moon is Ganymede, not Callisto,ʹ she said, pointing over Ronʹs 
shoulder at a line in his Astronomy essay, ʹand itʹs lo thatʹs got the volcanoes.ʹ 
Thanks,ʹ snarled Ron, scratching out the offending sentences. 
ʹSorry, I only ‐ʹ 
ʹYeah, well, if youʹve just come over here to criticise ‐ʹ 
ʹRon ‐ʹ 
ʹI havenʹt got time to listen to a sermon, all right, Hermione, Iʹm up to my neck in 
it here ‐ʹ 
ʹNo ‐ look!ʹ 
Hermione was pointing to the nearest window. Harry and Ron both looked over. 
A handsome screech owl was standing on the windowsill, gazing into the room 
at Ron. 
ʹIsnʹt that Hermes?ʹ said Hermione, sounding amazed. 
ʹBlimey, it is!ʹ said Ron quietly, throwing down his quill and getting to his feet. 
ʹWhatʹs Percy writing to me for?ʹ 
He crossed to the window and opened it; Hermes flew inside, landed on Ronʹs 
essay and held out a leg to which a letter was attached. Ron took the letter off it 
and the owl departed at once, leaving inky footprints across Ronʹs drawing of the 
moon lo. 
Thatʹs definitely Percyʹs handwriting,ʹ said Ron, sinking back into his chair and 
staring at the words on the outside of the scroll: Ronald Weasley, Gryffindor House, 
Hogwarts. He looked up at the other two. ʹWhat dʹyou reckon?ʹ 

ʹOpen it!ʹ said Hermione eagerly, and Harry nodded. 
Ron unrolled the scroll and began to read. The further down the parchment his 
eyes travelled, the more pronounced became his scowl. When he had finished 
reading, he looked disgusted. He thrust the letter at Harry and Hermione, who 
leaned towards each other to read it together: 
Dear Ron,
I have only just heard (from no less a person than the Minister for Magic himself, who 
has it from your new teacher, Professor Umbridge) that you have become a Hogwarts 
prefect.
was most pleasantly surprised when I heard this news and must firstly offer my 
congratulations. 1 must admit that I have always been afraid that you would take what 
we might call the ʹFred and Georgeʹ route, rather than following in my footsteps, so you 
can imagine my feelings on hearing you have stopped flouting authority and have decided 
to shoulder some real responsibility.
But I want to give you more than congratulations, Ron, I want to give you some advice, 
which is why I am sending this at night rather than by the usual morning post. 
Hopefully, you will be able to read this away from prying eyes and avoid awkward 
questions.
From something the Minister let slip when telling me you are now a prefect, I gather that 
you are still seeing a lot of Harry Potter. 1 must tell you, Ron, that nothing could put 
you in danger of losing your badge more than continued fraternisation with that boy. 
Yes, I am sure you are surprised to hear this ‐ no doubt you will say that Potter has 
always been Dumbledoreʹs favourite — but I feel bound to tell you that Dumbledore may 
not be in charge at Hogwarts much longer and the people who count have a very different 
‐ and probably more accurate ‐ view of Potterʹs behaviour. I shall say no more here, but if 
you look at the Daily Prophet 
tomorrow you will get a good idea of the way the wind is blowing — and see if you can 
spot yours truly! 
Seriously, Ron, you do not want to be tarred with the same brush as Potter, it could be 
very damaging to your future prospects, and I am talking here about life after school, too. 
As you must be aware, given that our father escorted him to court, Potter had a 
disciplinary hearing this summer in front of the whole Wizengamot and he did not come 

out of it looking too good. He got off on a mere technicality, if you ask me, and many of 
the people Iʹve spoken to remain convinced of his guilt.
It may be that you are afraid to sever ties with Potter ‐ / know that he can be unbalanced 
and, for all I know, violent ‐ but if you have any worries about this, or have spotted 
anything else in Potterʹs behaviour that is troubling you, I urge you to speak to Dolores 
Umbridge, a truly delightful woman who I know will be only too happy to advise you. 
This leads me to my other bit of advice. As I have hinted above, Dumbledoreʹs regime at 
Hogwarts may soon be over. Your loyalty, Ron, should be not to him, but to the school 
and the Ministry. I am very sorry to hear that, so far, Professor Umbridge is 
encountering very little co‐operation from staff as she strives to make those necessary 
changes within Hogwarts that the Ministry so ardently desires (although she should find 
this easier from next week — again, see the Daily Prophet tomorrow!). I shall say only 
this ‐ a student who shows himself willing to help Professor Umbridge now may be very 
well‐placed for Head Boyship in a couple of years! 
I am sorry that I was unable to see more of you over the summer. It pains me to criticise 
our parents, but I am afraid i can no longer live under their roof while they remain mixed 
up with the dangerous crowd around Dumbledore. (If you are writing to Mother at any 
point, you might tell her that a certain Sturgis Podmore, who is a great friend of 
Dumbledoreʹs, has recently been sent to Azkabanfor trespass at the Ministry. Perhaps 
that will open their eyes to the kind of petty criminals with whom they are currently 
rubbing shoulders.) I count myself very lucky to have escaped the stigma of association 
with such people ‐ the Minister really could not be more gracious to me — and 1 do hope, 
Ron, that you will
not allow family ties to blind you to the misguided nature of our parentsʹ beliefs and 
actions, either. I sincerely hope that, in time, they will realise how mistaken they were 
and I shall, of course, be ready to accept a full apology when that day comes.
Please think over what I have said most carefully, particularly the bit about Harry Potter, 
and congratulations again on becoming prefect.
Your brother,
Percy
Harry looked up at Ron. 

ʹWell,ʹ he said, trying to sound as though he found the whole thing a joke, ʹif you 
want to ‐ er ‐ what is it?ʹ ‐ he checked Percyʹs letter ‐ ʹOh yeah ‐ ʺsever tiesʺ with 
me, I swear 1 wonʹt get violent.ʹ 
ʹGive it back,ʹ said Ron, holding out his hand. ʹHe is ‐ʹ Ron said jerkily, tearing 
Percyʹs letter in half ʹthe worldʹs ‐ʹ he tore it into quarters ʹbiggest ‐ʹ he tore it into 
eighths ʹgit.ʹ He threw the pieces into the fire. 
ʹCome on, weʹve got to get this finished sometime before dawn,ʹ he said briskly 
to Harry, pulling Professor Sinistraʹs essay back towards him. 
Hermione was looking at Ron with an odd expression on her face. 
ʹOh, give them here,ʹ she said abruptly. 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Ron. 
ʹGive them to me, Iʹll look through them and correct them,ʹ she said. 
ʹAre you serious? Ah, Hermione, youʹre a life‐saver,ʹ said Ron, ʹwhat can I ‐?ʹ 
ʹWhat you can say is, ʺWe promise weʹll never leave our homework this late 
again,ʺʹ she said, holding out both hands for their essays, but she looked slightly 
amused all the same. 
Thanks a million, Hermione,ʹ said Harry weakly, passing over his essay and 
sinking back into his armchair, rubbing his eyes. 
It was now past midnight and the common room was deserted but for the three 
of them and Crookshanks. The only sound was that of Hermioneʹs quill 
scratching out sentences here and there on their essays and the ruffle of pages as 
she checked various facts in the reference books strewn across the table. Harry 
was exhausted. He also felt an odd, sick, empty feeling in his stomach that had 
nothing to do with tiredness and everything to do with the letter now curling 
blackly in the heart of the fire. 
He knew that half the people inside Hogwarts thought him strange, even mad; 
he knew that the Daily Prophet had been making snide allusions to him for 
months, but there was something about seeing it written down like that in Percys 
writing, about knowing that Percy was advising Ron to drop him and even to tell 
tales about him to Umbridge, that made his situation real to him as nothing else 

had. He had known Percy for four years, had stayed in his house during the 
summer holidays, shared a tent with him during the Quidditch World Cup, had 
even been awarded full marks by him in the second task of the Triwizard 
Tournament last year, yet now, Percy thought him unbalanced and possibly 
violent. 
And with a surge of sympathy for his godfather, Harry thought Sirius was 
probably the only person he knew who could really understand how he felt at 
the moment, because Sirius was in the same situation. Nearly everyone in the 
wizarding world thought Sirius a dangerous murderer and a great Voldemort 
supporter and he had had to live with that knowledge for fourteen years… 
Harry blinked. He had just seen something in the fire that could not have been 
there. It had flashed into sight and vanished immediately. No… it could not have 
been… he had imagined it because he had been thinking about Sirius… 
ʹOK, write that down,ʹ Hermione said to Ron, pushing his essay and a sheet 
covered in her own writing back to Ron, ʹthen add this conclusion Iʹve written for 
you.ʹ 
ʹHermione, you are honestly the most wonderful person Iʹve ever met,ʹ said Ron 
weakly, ʹand if Iʹm ever rude to you again ‐ʹ 
ʹ‐ Iʹll know youʹre back to normal,ʹ said Hermione. ʹHarry, yours is OK except for 
this bit at the end, I think you must have misheard Professor Sinistra, Europaʹs 
covered in ice, not mice ‐Harry?ʹ 
Harry had slid off his chair on to his knees and was now crouching on the singed 
and threadbare hearthrug, gazing into the flames. 
ʹEr ‐ Harry?ʹ said Ron uncertainly. ʹWhy are you down there?ʹ 
ʹBecause Iʹve just seen Siriusʹs head in the fire,ʹ said Harry. 
He spoke quite calmly; after all, he had seen Siriusʹs head in this very fire the 
previous year and talked to it, too; nevertheless, he could not be sure that he had 
really seen it this time… it had vanished so quickly… 
ʹSiriusʹs head?ʹ Hermione repeated. ʹYou mean like when he wanted to talk to 
you during the Triwizard Tournament? But he wouldnʹt do that now, it would 
be too ‐ Sirius!ʹ 

She gasped, gazing at the fire; Ron dropped his quill. There in the middle of the 
dancing flames sat Siriusʹs head, long dark hair falling around his grinning face. 
ʹ1 was starting to think youʹd go to bed before everyone else had disappeared,ʹ he 
said. ʹIʹve been checking every hour.ʹ 
ʹYouʹve been popping into the fire every hour?ʹ Harry said, half‐laughing. 
ʹJust for a few seconds to check if the coast was clear.ʹ 
ʹBut what if youʹd been seen?ʹ said Hermione anxiously. 
ʹWell, 1 think a girl ‐ first‐year, by the look of her ‐ mightʹve got a glimpse of me 
earlier, but donʹt worryʹ Sirius said hastily, as Hermione clapped a hand to her 
mouth, ʹI was gone the moment she looked back at me and Iʹll bet she just 
thought I was an oddly‐shaped log or something.ʹ 
ʹBut, Sirius, this is taking an awful risk ‐ʹ Hermione began. 
ʹYou sound like Molly,ʹ said Sirius. This was the only way I could come up with 
of answering Harrys letter without resorting to a code ‐ and codes are breakable.ʹ 
At the mention of Harryʹs letter, Hermione and Ron both turned to stare at him. 
ʹYou didnʹt say youʹd written to Sirius!ʹ said Hermione accusingly. 
ʹI forgot,ʹ said Harry, which was perfectly true; his meeting with Cho in the 
Owlery had driven everything before it out of his mind. ʹDonʹt look at me like 
that, Hermione, there was no way anyone would have got secret information out 
of it, was there, Sirius?ʹ 
ʹNo, it was very good,ʹ said Sirius, smiling. ʹAnyway, weʹd better be quick, just in 
case weʹre disturbed ‐ your scar.ʹ 
ʹWhat about ‐?ʹ Ron began, but Hermione interrupted him. . ʹWeʹll tell you 
afterwards. Go on, Sirius.ʹ 
ʹWell, I know it canʹt be fun when it hurts, but we donʹt think itʹs anything to 
really worry about. It kept aching all last year, didnʹt it?ʹ 

ʹYeah, and Dumbledore said it happened whenever Voldemort was feeling a 
powerful emotion,ʹ said Harry, ignoring, as usual, Ron and Hermioneʹs winces. 
ʹSo maybe he was just, I dunno, really angry or something the night I had that 
detention.ʹ 
ʹWell, now heʹs back itʹs bound to hurt more often,ʹ said Sirius. 
ʹSo you donʹt think it had anything to do with Umbridge touching me when I 
was in detention with her?ʹ Harry asked. 
ʹI doubt it,ʹ said Sirius. ʹI know her by reputation and Iʹm sure sheʹs no Death 
Eater ‐ʹ 
ʹSheʹs foul enough to be one,ʹ said Harry darkly, and Ron and Hermione nodded 
vigorously in agreement. 
ʹYes, but the world isnʹt split into good people and Death Eaters,ʹ said Sirius with 
a wry smile. ʹI know sheʹs a nasty piece of work, though — you should hear 
Remus talk about her.ʹ 
ʹDoes Lupin know her?ʹ asked Harry quickly, remembering Umbridgeʹs 
comments about dangerous half‐breeds during her first lesson. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Sirius, ʹbut she drafted a bit of anti‐werewolf legislation two years ago 
that makes it almost impossible for him to get a job.ʹ 
Harry remembered how much shabbier Lupin looked these days and his dislike 
of Umbridge deepened even further. 
ʹWhatʹs she got against werewolves?ʺ said Hermione angrily. 
ʹScared of them, I expect,ʹ said Sirius, smiling at her indignation. ʹApparently she 
loathes part‐humans; she campaigned to have merpeople rounded up and 
tagged last year, too. Imagine wasting your time and energy persecuting 
merpeople when there are little toerags like Kreacher on the loose.ʹ 
Ron laughed but Hermione looked upset. 
ʹSirius!ʹ she said reproachfully. ʹHonestly, if you made a bit of an effort with 
Kreacher, Iʹm sure heʹd respond. After all, you are the only member of his family 
heʹs got left, and Professor Dumbledore said ‐ʹ 

ʹSo, what are Umbridgeʹs lessons like?ʹ Sirius interrupted. ʹIs she training you all 
to kill half‐breeds?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry, ignoring Hermioneʹs affronted look at being cut off in her 
defence of Kreacher. ʹSheʹs not letting us use magic at all!ʹ 
ʹAll we do is read the stupid textbook,ʹ said Ron. 
ʹAh, well, that figures,ʹ said Sirius. ʹOur information Irom inside the Ministry is 
that Fudge doesnʹt want you trained in combat.ʹ 
ʹTrained in combat!ʹ repeated Harry incredulously. ʹWhat does he think weʹre 
doing here, forming some sort of wizard army?ʹ 
Thatʹs exactly what he thinks youʹre doing,ʹ said Sirius, ʹor, rather, thatʹs exactly 
what heʹs afraid Dumbledoreʹs doing ‐ forming his own private army, with 
which he will be able to take on the Ministry of Magic.ʹ 
There was a pause at this, then Ron said, Thatʹs the most stupid thing Iʹve ever 
heard, including all the stuff that Luna Lovegood comes out with.ʹ 
ʹSo weʹre being prevented from learning Defence Against the Dark Arts because 
Fudge is scared weʹll use spells against the Ministry?ʹ said Hermione, looking 
furious. 
ʹYep,ʹ said Sirius. ʹFudge thinks Dumbledore will stop at nothing to seize power. 
Heʹs getting more paranoid about Dumbledore by the day. Itʹs a matter of time 
before he has Dumbledore arrested on some trumped‐up charge.ʹ 
This reminded Harry of Percyʹs letter. 
ʹDʹyou know if thereʹs going to be anything about Dumbledore in the Daily 
Prophet tomorrow? Ronʹs brother Percy reckons there will be ‐ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know,ʹ said Sirius, ʹI havenʹt seen anyone from the Order all weekend, 
theyʹre all busy. Itʹs just been Kreacher and me here 
There was a definite note of bitterness in Siriusʹs voice. 
ʹSo you havenʹt had any news about Hagrid, either?ʹ 

ʹAh…ʹ said Sirius, ʹwell, he was supposed to be back by now, no oneʹs sure 
whatʹs happened to him.ʹ Then, seeing their stricken faces, he added quickly, ʹBut 
Dumbledoreʹs not worried, so donʹt you three get yourselves in a state; Iʹm sure 
Hagridʹs fine.ʹ 
ʹBut if he was supposed to be back by now…ʹ said Hermione in a small, anxious 
voice. 
ʹMadame Maxime was with him, weʹve been in touch with her and she says they 
got separated on the journey home ‐ but thereʹs nothing to suggest heʹs hurt or ‐ 
well, nothing to suggest heʹs not perfectly OK.ʹ 
Unconvinced, Harry, Ron and Hermione exchanged worried looks. 
ʹListen, donʹt go asking too many questions about Hagrid,ʹ said Sirius hastily, ʹitʹll 
just draw even more attention to the fact that heʹs not back and I know 
Dumbledore doesnʹt want that. Hagridʹs tough, heʹll be OK.ʹ And when they did 
not appear cheered by this, Sirius added, ʹWhenʹs your next Hogsmeade 
weekend, anyway? I was thinking, we got away with the dog disguise at the 
station, didnʹt we? I thought I could —ʹ 
ʹNO!ʹ said Harry and Hermione together, very loudly. 
ʹSirius, didnʹt you see the Daily Prophet?ʹ said Hermione anxiously. 
ʹOh, that,ʹ said Sirius, grinning, ʹtheyʹre always guessing where I am, they havenʹt 
really got a clue ‐ʹ 
ʹYeah, but we think this time they have,ʹ said Harry. ʹSomething Malfoy said on 
the train made us think he knew it was you, and his father was on the platform, 
Sirius ‐ you know, Lucius Malfoy ‐ so donʹt come up here, whatever you do. If 
Malfoy recognises you again ‐ʹ 
ʹAll right, all right, Iʹve got the point,ʹ said Sirius. He looked most displeased. 
ʹJust an idea, thought you might like to get together.ʹ 
ʹI would, I just donʹt want you chucked back in Azkaban!ʹ said Harry. 
There was a pause in which Sirius looked out of the fire at Harry, a crease 
between his sunken eyes. 

ʹYouʹre less like your father than I thought,ʹ he said finally, a definite coolness in 
his voice. The risk wouldʹve been what made it fun for James.ʹ 
ʹLook ‐ʹ 
ʹWell, Iʹd better get going, I can hear Kreacher coming down the stairs,ʹ said 
Sirius, but Harry was sure he was lying. Til write to tell you a time I can make it 
back into the fire, then, shall I? If you can stand to risk it?ʹ 
There was a tiny pop, and the place where Siriusʹs head had been was flickering 
flame once more. 
— CHAPTER FIFTEEN — 
The Hogwarts High Inquisitor
They had expected to have to comb Hermioneʹs Daily Prophet carefully next 
morning to find the article Percy had mentioned in his letter. However, the 
departing delivery owl had barely cleared the top of the milk jug when 
Hermione let out a huge gasp and flattened the newspaper to reveal a large 
photograph of Dolores Umbridge, smiling widely and blinking slowly at them 
from beneath the headline. 
MINISTRY SEEKS EDUCATIONAL REFORM
DOLORES UMBR1DGE APPOINTED
FIRST EVER HIGH INQUISITOR
ʹUmbridge ‐ ʺHigh Inquisitorʺ?ʹ said Harry darkly, his half‐eaten piece of toast 
slipping from his fingers. ʹWhat does that mean?ʹ Hermione read aloud: 
ʹIn a surprise move last night the Ministry of Magic passed new legislation giving itself 
an unprecedented level of control at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
ʹʺThe Minister has been growing uneasy about goings‐on at Hogwarts for some time,ʺ 
said junior Assistant to the Minister, Percy Weasley. ʺHe is now responding to concerns 
voiced by anxious parents, who feel the school may be moving in a direction they do not 
approve of.ʺ

ʹThis is not the first time in recent weeks that the Minister, Cornelius Fudge, has used 
new laws to effect improvements at the
wizarding school. As recently as 30ih August, Educational Decree Number Twenty‐two 
was passed, to ensure that, in the event of the current Headmaster being unable to 
provide a candidate for a teaching post, the Ministry should select an appropriate person. 
ʹʺThatʹs how Dolores Umbridge came to be appointed to the teaching staff at Hogwarts,ʺ 
said Weasley last night. ʺDumbledore couldnʹt find anyone so the Minister put in 
Umbridge, and of course, sheʹs been an immediate success —ʺʹ
ʹSheʹs been a WHAT?ʹ said Harry loudly. ʹWait, thereʹs more,ʹ said Hermione 
grimly. 
ʹʺ— an immediate success, totally revolutionising the teaching of Defence Against the 
Dark Arts and providing the Minister with on‐the‐ground feedback about whatʹs really 
happening at Hogwarts.ʺ 
ʹIt is this last function that the Ministry has now formalised with the passing of 
Educational Decree Number Twenty‐three, which creates the new position of Hogwarts 
High Inquisitor.
ʹʺThis is an exciting new phase in the Ministerʹs plan to get to grips with what some are 
calling the falling standards at Hogwarts,ʺ said Weasley. ʺThe Inquisitor will have 
powers to inspect her fellow educators and make sure that they are coming up to scratch. 
Professor Umbridge has been offered this position in addition to her own teaching post 
and we are delighted to say that she has accepted.ʺ 
ʹThe Ministryʹs new moves have received enthusiastic support from parents of students 
at Hogwarts.
ʺT feel much easier in my mind now that I know Dumbledore is being subjected to fair 
and objective evaluation,ʺ said Mr Lucius Malfoy, 41, speaking from his Wiltshire 
mansion last night. ʺMany of us with our childrenʹs best interests at heart have been 
concerned about some of Dumbledoreʹs eccentric decisions in the last few years and are 
glad to know that the Ministry is keeping an eye on the situation.ʺ
ʹAmong those eccentric decisions are undoubtedly the controversial staff appointments 
previously described in this newspaper, which have included the employment of werewolf 
Remus Lupin, half‐giant Rubeus Hagrid and delusional ex‐Auror, ʺMad‐Eyeʺ Moody. 

ʹRumours abound, of course, that Albus Dumbledore, once Supreme Mugwump of the 
International Confederation of Wizards and Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, is no 
longer up to the task of managing the prestigious school of Hogwarts.
ʹʺI think the appointment of the Inquisitor is a first step towards ensuring that Hogwarts 
has a headmaster in whom we can all repose our confidence,ʺ said a Ministry insider last 
night.
ʹWizengamot elders Griselda Marchbanks and Tiberius Ogden have resigned in protest 
at the introduction of the post of Inquisitor to Hogwarts.
ʹʺHogwarts is a school, not an outpost of Cornelius Fudgeʹs office,ʺ said Madam 
Marchbanks. ʺThis is a further, disgusting attempt to discredit Albus Dumbledore.ʺ
ʹ(For a full account of Madam Marchbanksʹs alleged links to . subversive goblin groups, 
turn to page seventeen.)ʹ
Hermione finished reading and looked across the table at the other two. 
ʹSo now we know how we ended up with Umbridge! Fudge passed this 
ʺEducational Decreeʺ and forced her on us! And now heʹs given her the power to 
inspect the other teachers!ʹ Hermione was breathing fast and her eyes were very 
bright. ʹI canʹt believe this. Itʹs outrageous]ʹ
ʹI know it is,ʹ said Harry. He looked down at his right hand, clenched on the 
table‐top, and saw the faint white outline of the words Umbridge had forced him 
to cut into his skin. 
But a grin was unfurling on Ronʹs face. 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry and Hermione together, staring at him. 
ʹOh, I canʹt wait to see McGonagall inspected,ʹ said Ron happily. ʹUmbridge 
wonʹt know whatʹs hit her.ʹ 
ʹWell, come on,ʹ said Hermione, jumping up, ʹweʹd better get going, if sheʹs 
inspecting Binnsʹs class we donʹt want to be late…ʹ 
But Professor Umbridge was not inspecting their History of Magic lesson, which 
was just as dull as the previous Monday, nor was she in Snapeʹs dungeon when 

they arrived for double Potions, where Harryʹs moonstone essay was handed 
back to him with a large, spiky black ʹDʹ scrawled in an upper corner. 
THE Hoc WARTS HIGH INQUISITOR 
ʹI have awarded you the grades you would have received if you presented this 
work in your OWL,ʹ said Snape with a smirk, as he swept among them, passing 
back their homework. This should give you a realistic idea of what to expect in 
the examination.ʹ 
Snape reached the front of the class and turned on his heel to face them. 
The general standard of this homework was abysmal. Most of you would have 
failed had this been your examination. I expect to see a great deal more effort for 
this weeks essay on the various varieties of venom antidotes, or I shall have to 
start handing out detentions to those dunces who get a ʺDʹV 
He smirked as Malfoy sniggered and said in a carrying whisper, ʹSome people 
got a ʺDʺ? Ha!ʹ 
Harry realised that Hermione was looking sideways to see what grade he had 
received; he slid his moonstone essay back into his bag as quickly as possible, 
feeling that he would rather keep that information private. 
Determined not to give Snape an excuse to fail him this lesson, Harry read and 
reread every line of instructions on the blackboard at least three times before 
acting on them. His Strengthening Solution was not precisely the clear turquoise 
shade of Hermioneʹs but it was at least blue rather than pink, like Nevilleʹs, and 
he delivered a flask of it to Snapeʹs desk at the end of the lesson with a feeling of 
mingled defiance and relief. 
ʹWell, that wasnʹt as bad as last week, was it?ʹ said Hermione, as they climbed the 
steps out of the dungeon and made their way across the Entrance Hall towards 
lunch. ʹAnd the homework didnʹt go too badly, either, did it?ʹ 
When neither Ron nor Harry answered, she pressed on, ʹI mean, all right, 1 didnʹt 
expect the top grade, not if heʹs marking to OWL standard, but a pass is quite 
encouraging at this stage, wouldnʹt you say?ʹ 
Harry made a non‐committal noise in his throat. 

ʹOf course, a lot can happen between now and the exam, weʹve got plenty of time 
to improve, but the grades weʹre getting now are a sort of baseline, arenʹt they? 
Something we can build on…ʺ 
They sat down together at the Gryffmdor table. 
ʹObviously, Iʹd have been thrilled if Iʹd got an ʺOʺ ‐ʹ 
ʹHermione,ʹ said Ron sharply ʹif you want to know what grades we got, ask.ʹ : ‐ʹ
ʹI donʹt ‐ I didnʹt mean ‐ well, if you want to tell me ‐ʹ ••‐
ʹI got a ʺPʺ,ʹ said Ron, ladling soup into his bowl. ʹHappy?ʹ 
ʹWell, thatʹs nothing to be ashamed of,ʹ said Fred, who had just arrived at the 
table with George and Lee Jordan and was sitting down on Harryʹs right. 
ʹNothing wrong with a good healthy ʺPʺ.ʹ 
ʹBut,ʹ said Hermione, ʹdoesnʹt ʺPʺ stand for…ʺ 
ʹʺPoorʺ, yeah,ʹ said Lee Jordan. ʹStill, better than ʺDʺ, isnʹt it? ʺDreadfulʺ?ʹ 
Harry felt his face grow warm and faked a small coughing fit over his roll. When 
he emerged from this he was sorry to find that Hermione was still in full flow 
about OWL grades. 
ʹSo top gradeʹs ʺOʺ for ʺOutstandingʺ,ʹ she was saying, ʹand then thereʹs ʺAʺ ‐ʹ 
ʹNo, ʺEʺ,ʹ George corrected her, ʹʺEʺ for ʺExceeds Expectationsʺ. And Iʹve always 
thought Fred and I shouldʹve got ʺEʺ in everything, because we exceeded 
expectations just by turning up for the exams.ʹ 
They all laughed except Hermione, who ploughed on, ʹSo, after ʺEʺ itʹs ʺAʺ for 
ʺAcceptableʺ, and thatʹs the last pass grade, isnʹt it?ʹ 
ʹYep,ʹ said Fred, dunking an entire roll in his soup, transferring it to his mouth 
and swallowing it whole. 
Then you get ʺPʺ for ʺPoorʺ‐ʹ Ron raised both his arms in mock celebration ‐ ʹand 
ʺDʺ for ʺDreadfulʺ.ʹ 
ʹAnd then ʺTʺ,ʹ George reminded him. 

ʹTʺ?ʹ asked Hermione, looking appalled. ʹEven lower than a ʺDʺ? What on earth 
does ʺTʺ stand for?ʹ 
ʹTrollʺ,ʹ said George promptly. 
Harry laughed again, though he was not sure whether or not George was joking. 
He imagined trying to conceal from Hermione that he had received Tʹs in all his 
OWLs and immediately resolved to work harder from now on. 
ʹYou lot had an inspected lesson yet?ʹ Fred asked them. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Hermione at once. ʹHave you?ʹ 
ʹJust now, before lunch,ʹ said George. ʹCharms.ʹ 
THE Hoc WARTS HIGH INQUISITOR 
ʹWhat was it like?ʹ Harry and Hermione asked together. 
Fred shrugged. 
ʹNot that bad. Umbridge just lurked in the corner making notes on a clipboard. 
You know what Flitwickʹs like, he treated her like a guest, didnʹt seem to bother 
him at all. She didnʹt say much. Asked Alicia a couple of questions about what 
the classes are normally like, Alicia told her they were really good, that was it.ʹ 
ʹI canʹt see old Flitwick getting marked down,ʹ said George, ʹhe usually gets 
everyone through their exams all right.ʹ 
ʹWhoʹve you got this afternoon?ʹ Fred asked Harry. 
Trelawney ‐ʹ 
ʹA ʺTʺ if ever I saw one.ʹ 
ʹ‐ and Umbridge herself.ʹ 
ʹWell, be a good boy and keep your temper with Umbridge todayʹ said George. 
ʹAngelinaʹll do her nut if you miss any more Quidditch practices.ʹ 
But Harry did not have to wait for Defence Against the Dark Arts to meet 
Professor Umbridge. He was pulling out his dream diary in a seat at the very 

back of the shadowy Divination room when Ron elbowed him in the ribs and, 
looking round, he saw Professor Umbridge emerging through the trapdoor in the 
floor. The class, which had been talking cheerily fell silent at once. The abrupt fall 
in the noise level made Professor Trelawney, who had been wafting about 
handing out copies of The Dream Oracle, look round. 
ʹGood afternoon, Professor Trelawney,ʹ said Professor Umbridge with her wide 
smile. ʹYou received my note, I trust? Giving the time and date of your 
inspection?ʹ 
Professor Trelawney nodded curtly and, looking very disgruntled, turned her 
back on Professor Umbridge and continued to give out books. Still smiling, 
Professor Umbridge grasped the back of the nearest armchair and pulled it to the 
front of the class so that it was a few inches behind Professor Trelawneys seat. 
She then sat down, took her clipboard from her flowery bag and looked up 
expectantly, waiting for the class to begin. 
Professor Trelawney pulled her shawls tight about her with slightly trembling 
hands and surveyed the class through her hugely magnifying lenses. 
ʹWe shall be continuing our study of prophetic dreams today,ʹ she said in a brave 
attempt at her usual mystic tones, though her voice shook slightly. ʹDivide into 
pairs, please, and interpret each otherʹs latest night‐time visions with the aid of 
the Oracle.ʹ 
She made as though to sweep back to her seat, saw Professor Umbridge sitting 
right beside it, and immediately veered left towards Parvati and Lavender, who 
were already deep in discussion about Parvatiʹs most recent dream. 
Harry opened his copy of The Dream Oracle, watching Umbridge covertly. She 
was already making notes on her clipboard. After a few minutes she got to her 
ieet and began to pace the room in Trelawneyʹs wake, listening to her 
conversations with students and posing questions here and there. Harry bent his 
head hurriedly over his book. 
Think of a dream, quick,ʹ he told Ron, ʹin case the old toad comes our way.ʹ 
ʹI did it last time,ʹ Ron protested, ʹitʹs your turn, you tell me one.ʹ 

ʹOh, I dunno…ʹ said Harry desperately, who could not remember dreaming 
anything at all over the last few days. ʹLets say I dreamed I was… drowning 
Snape in my cauldron. Yeah, thatʹll do…ʹ 
Ron chortled as he opened his Dream Oracle. 
ʹOK, weʹve got to add your age to the date you had the dream, the number of 
letters in the subject… would that be ʺdrowningʺ or ʺcauldronʺ or ʺSnapeʺ?ʹ 
ʹIt doesnʹt matter, pick any of them,ʹ said Harry, chancing a glance behind him. 
Professor Umbridge was now standing at Professor Trelawneys shoulder making 
notes while the Divination teacher questioned Neville about his dream diary. 
ʹWhat night did you dream this again?ʹ Ron said, immersed in calculations. 
ʹI dunno, last night, whenever you like,ʹ Harry told him, trying to listen to what 
Umbridge was saying to Professor Trelawney. They were only a table away from 
him and Ron now. Professor Umbridge was making another note on her 
clipboard and Professor Trelawney was looking extremely put out. 
ʹNow,ʹ said Umbridge, looking up at Trelawney, ʹyouʹve been in this post how 
long, exactly?ʹ 
Professor Trelawney scowled at her, arms crossed and shoulders hunched as 
though wishing to protect herself as much as possible from the indignity of the 
inspection. After a slight pause in which she seemed to decide that the question 
was not so offensive that she could reasonably ignore it, she said in a deeply 
resentful tone, ʹNearly sixteen years.ʹ 
ʹQuite a period,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, making a note on her clipboard. ʹSo it 
was Professor Dumbledore who appointed you?ʹ 
Thatʹs right,ʹ said Professor Trelawney shortly. 
Professor Umbridge made another note. 
ʹAnd you are a great‐great‐granddaughter of the celebrated Seer Cassandra 
Trelawney?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Professor Trelawney, holding her head a little higher. 

Another note on the clipboard. 
ʹBut 1 think ‐ correct me if I am mistaken ‐ that you are the first in your family 
since Cassandra to be possessed of Second Sight?ʹ 
ʹThese things often skip ‐ er ‐ three generations,ʹ said Professor Trelawney. 
Professor Umbridgeʹs toadlike smile widened. 
ʹOf course,ʹ she said sweetly, making yet another note. ʹWell, if you could just 
predict something for me, then?ʹ And she looked up enquiringly, still smiling. 
Professor Trelawney stiffened as though unable to believe her ears. ʹI donʹt 
understand you,ʹ she said, clutching convulsively at the shawl around her 
scrawny neck. 
ʹIʹd like you to make a prediction for me,ʹ said Professor Umbridge very clearly. 
Harry and Ron were not the only people now watching and listening sneakily 
from behind their books. Most of the class were staring transfixed at Professor 
Trelawney as she drew herself up to her full height, her beads and bangles 
clinking. 
The Inner Eye does not See upon command!ʹ she said in scandalised tones. 
ʹI see,ʹ said Professor Umbridge softly, making yet another note on her clipboard. 
ʹI ‐ but ‐ but… wait!ʹ said Professor Trelawney suddenly, in an attempt at her 
usual ethereal voice, though the mystical effect was ruined somewhat by the way 
it was shaking with anger. ʹI… I think I do see something… something that 
concerns you… why, 1 sense something… something dark… some grave peril…ʹ 
Professor Trelawney pointed a shaking finger at Professor Umbridge who 
continued to smile blandly at her, eyebrows raised. 
ʹI am afraid… I am afraid that you are in grave danger!ʹ Professor Trelawney 
finished dramatically. 
There was a pause. Professor Umbridge surveyed Professor Trelawney. 

ʹRight,ʹ she said softly, scribbling on her clipboard once more. ʹWell, if thatʹs 
really the best you can do…ʹ 
She turned away, leaving Professor Trelawney standing rooted to the spot, her 
chest heaving. Harry caught Ronʹs eye and knew that Ron was thinking exactly 
the same as he was: they both knew that Professor Trelawney was an old fraud, 
but on the other hand, they loathed Umbridge so much that they felt very much 
on Trelawneys side ‐ until she swooped down on them a few seconds later, that 
is. 
ʹWell?ʹ she said, snapping her long fingers under Harryʹs nose, 
uncharacteristically brisk. ʹLet me see the start youʹve made on your dream diary, 
please.ʹ 
And by the time she had interpreted Harrys dreams at the top of her voice (all of 
which, even the ones that involved eating porridge, apparently foretold a 
gruesome and early death), he was feeling much less sympathetic towards her. 
All the while, Professor Umbridge stood a few feet away, making notes on that 
clipboard, and when the bell rang she descended the silver ladder first and was 
waiting for them all when they reached their Defence Against the Dark Arts 
lesson ten minutes later. 
She was humming and smiling to herself when they entered the room. Harry and 
Ron told Hermione, who had been in Arithmancy, exactly what had happened in 
Divination while they all took out their copies of Defensive Magical Theory, but 
before Hermione could ask any questions Professor Umbridge had called them 
all to order and silence fell. 
ʹWands awayʹ she instructed them all with a smile, and those people who had 
been hopeful enough to take them out, sadly returned them to their bags. ʹAs we 
finished Chapter One last 
THE HOG WARTS HIGH INQUISITOR 
lesson, I would like you all to turn to page nineteen today and commence 
ʺChapter Two, Common Defensive Theories and their Derivationʺ. There will be 
no need to talk.ʹ 
Still smiling her wide, self‐satisfied smile, she sat down at her desk. The class 
gave an audible sigh as it turned, as one, to page nineteen. Harry wondered 
dully whether there were enough chapters in the book to keep them reading 

through all this yearʹs lessons and was on the point of checking the contents page 
when he noticed that Hermione had her hand in the air again. 
Professor Umbridge had noticed, too, and what was more, she seemed to have 
worked out a strategy for just such an eventuality. Instead of trying to pretend 
she had not noticed Hermione she got to her feet and walked around the front 
row of desks until they were face to face, then she bent down and whispered, so 
that the rest of the class could not hear, ʹWhat is it this time, Miss Granger?ʹ 
ʹIʹve already read Chapter Two,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹWell then, proceed to Chapter Three.ʹ 
ʹIʹve read that too. Iʹve read the whole book.ʹ 
Professor Umbndge blinked but recovered her poise almost instantly. 
ʹWell, then, you should be able to tell me what Slinkhard says about counter‐
jinxes in Chapter Fifteen.ʹ 
ʹHe says that counter‐jinxes are improperly named,ʹ said Hermione promptly. 
ʹHe says ʺcounter‐jinxʺ is just a name people give their jinxes when they want to 
make them sound more acceptable.ʹ 
Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows and Harry knew she was impressed, 
against her will. 
ʹBut I disagree,ʹ Hermione continued. 
Professor Umbridgeʹs eyebrows rose a little higher and her gaze became 
distinctly colder. 
ʹYou disagree?ʹ she repeated. 
ʹYes, I do,ʹ said Hermione, who, unlike Umbridge, was not whispering, but 
speaking in a clear, carrying voice that had by now attracted the attention of the 
rest of the class. ʹMr Slinkhard doesnʹt like jinxes, does he? But. 1 think they can 
be very useful when theyʹre used defensively.ʹ 

ʹOh, you do, do you?ʹ said Professor Umbridge, forgetting to whisper and 
straightening up. ʹWell, Iʹm afraid it is Mr Slinkhardʹs opinion, and not yours, 
that matters within this classroom, Miss Granger.ʹ 
ʹBut ‐ʹ Hermione began. 
That is enough,ʹ said Professor Umbridge. She walked back to the front of the 
class and stood before them, all the jauntiness she had shown at the beginning of 
the lesson gone. ʹMiss Granger, 1 am going to take five points from Gryffindor 
house.ʹ 
There was an outbreak of muttering at this. : 
ʹWhat for?ʹ said Harry angrily. 
ʹDonʹt you get involved!ʹ Hermione whispered urgently to him. 
ʹFor disrupting my class with pointless interruptions,ʹ said Professor Umbridge 
smoothly. ʹI am here to teach you using a Ministry‐approved method that does 
not include inviting students to give their opinions on matters about which they 
understand very little. Your previous teachers in this subject may have allowed 
you more licence, but as none of them ‐ with the possible exception of Professor 
Quirrell, who did at least appear to have restricted himself to age‐appropriate 
subjects ‐ would have passed a Ministry inspection ‐ʹ 
ʹYeah, Quirrell was a great teacher,ʹ said Harry loudly, ʹthere was just that minor 
drawback of him having Lord Voldemort sticking out of the back of his head.ʹ 
This pronouncement was followed by one of the loudest silences Harry had ever 
heard. Then ‐ 
ʹI think another weekʹs detentions would do you some good, Mr Potter,ʹ said 
Umbridge sleekly. 
* 
The cut on the back of Harryʹs hand had barely healed and, by the following 
morning, it was bleeding again. He did not complain during the eveningʹs 
detention; he was determined not to give Umbridge the satisfaction; over and 
over again he wrote I must not tell lies and not a sound escaped his lips, though 
the cut deepened with every letter. 

The very worst part of this second weekʹs worth of detentions was, just as 
George had predicted, Angelinas reaction. She cornered him just as he arrived at 
the Gryffindor table for breakfast on Tuesday and shouted so loudly that 
Professor McGonagall came sweeping down upon the pair of them from the staff 
table. 
ʹMiss Johnson, how dare you make such a racket in the Great Hall! Five points 
from Gryffindor!ʹ 
ʹBut Professor ‐ heʹs gone and landed himself in detention again ‐
ʹWhatʹs this, Potter?ʹ said Professor McGonagall sharply, rounding on Harry. 
ʹDetention? From whom?ʹ 
ʹFrom Professor Umbridge,ʹ muttered Harry, not meeting Professor McGonagalls 
beady, square‐framed eyes. 
ʹAre you telling me,ʹ she said, lowering her voice so that the group of curious 
Ravenclaws behind them could not hear, ʹthat after the warning I gave you last 
Monday you lost your temper in Professor Umbridgeʹs class again?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ Harry muttered, speaking to the floor. 
ʹPotter, you must get a grip on yourself! You are heading for serious trouble! 
Another five points from Gryffindor!ʹ 
ʹBut ‐ what ‐? Professor, no!ʹ Harry said, furious at this injustice, ʹIʹm already 
being punished by her, why do you have to take points as well?ʹ 
ʹBecause detentions do not appear to have any effect on you whatsoever!ʹ said 
Professor McGonagall tartly. ʹNo, not another word of complaint, Potter! And as 
for you, Miss Johnson, you will confine your shouting matches to the Quidditch 
pitch in future or risk losing the team captaincy!ʹ 
Professor McGonagall strode back towards the staff table. Angelina gave Harry a 
look of deepest disgust and stalked away, upon which he flung himself on to the 
bench beside Ron, fuming. 
ʹSheʹs taken points off Gryffindor because Iʹm having my hand sliced open every 
night! How is that fair, how?ʹ 

ʹI know, mate,ʹ said Ron sympathetically, tipping bacon on to Harryʹs plate, ʹsheʹs 
bang out of order.ʹ 
Hermione, however, merely rustled the pages of her Daily Prophet and said 
nothing. 
ʹYou think McGonagall was right, do you?ʹ said Harry angrily to the picture of 
Cornelius Fudge obscuring Hermioneʹs face. 
ʹI wish she hadnʹt taken points from you, but I think sheʹs right to warn you not 
to lose your temper with Umbridge,ʹ said Hermioneʹs voice, while Fudge 
gesticulated forcefully from the front page, clearly giving some kind of speech. 
Harry did not speak to Hermione all through Charms, but when they entered 
Transfiguration he forgot about being cross with her. Professor Umbridge and 
her clipboard were sitting in a corner and the sight of her drove the memory of 
breakfast right out of his head. 
ʹExcellent,ʹ whispered Ron, as they sat down in their usual seats. ʹLetʹs see 
Umbridge get what she deserves.ʹ 
Professor McGonagall marched into the room without giving the slightest 
indication that she knew Professor Umbridge was there. 
That will do,ʹ she said and silence fell immediately. ʹMr Finnigan, kindly come 
here and hand back the homework ‐ Miss Brown, please take this box of mice ‐ 
donʹt be silly, girl, they wonʹt hurt you ‐ and hand one to each student ‐ʹ 
ʹHem, hem,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, employing the same silly little cough she 
had used to interrupt Dumbledore on the first night of term. Professor 
McGonagall ignored her. Seamus handed back Harryʹs essay; Harry took it 
without looking at him and saw, to his relief, that he had managed an ʹAʹ. 
ʹRight then, everyone, listen closely ‐ Dean Thomas, if you do that to the mouse 
again I shall put you in detention ‐ most of you have now successfully Vanished 
your snails and even those who were left with a certain amount of shell have got 
the gist of the spell. Today, we shall be ‐ʹ 
ʹHem, hem,ʹ said Professor Umbridge. 

ʹYes?ʹ said Professor McGonagall, turning round, her eyebrows so close together 
they seemed to form one long, severe line. 
ʹ1 was just wondering, Professor, whether you received my note telling you of 
the date and time of your inspec—ʹ 
ʹObviously I received it, or I would have asked you what you are doing in my 
classroom,ʹ said Professor McGonagall, turning her back firmly on Professor 
Umbridge. Many of the students exchanged looks of glee. ʹAs 1 was saying: 
today, we shall be practising the altogether more difficult Vanishment of mice. 
Now, the Vanishing Spell ‐ʹ 
ʹHem, hem.ʹ
ʹI wonder,ʹ said Professor McGonagall in cold fury, turning on Professor 
Umbridge, ʹhow you expect to gain an idea of my usual teaching methods if you 
continue to interrupt me? You see, I do not generally permit people to talk when 
I am talking.ʹ 
Professor Umbridge looked as though she had just been slapped in the face. She 
did not speak, but straightened the parchment on her clipboard and began 
scribbling furiously. 
Looking supremely unconcerned, Professor McGonagall addressed the class 
once more. 
ʹAs I was saying: the Vanishing Spell becomes more difficult with the complexity 
of the animal to be Vanished. The snail, as an invertebrate, does not present 
much of a challenge; the mouse, as a mammal, offers a much greater one. This is 
not, therefore, magic you can accomplish with your mind on your dinner. So ‐ 
you know the incantation, let me see what you can do…ʹ 
ʹHow she can lecture me about not losing my temper with Umbridge!ʹ Harry 
muttered to Ron under his breath, but he was grinning ‐ his anger with Professor 
McGonagall had quite evaporated. 
Professor Umbridge did not follow Professor McGonagall around the class as she 
had followed Professor Trelawney; perhaps she realised Professor McGonagall 
would not permit it. She did, however, take many more notes while sitting in her 
corner, and when Professor McGonagall finally told them all to pack away, she 
rose with a grim expression on her face. 

ʹWell, itʹs a start,ʹ said Ron, holding up a long wriggling mouse‐tail and dropping 
it back into the box Lavender was passing around. 
As they filed out of the classroom, Harry saw Professor Umbridge approach the 
teacherʹs desk; he nudged Ron, who nudged Hermione in turn, and the three of 
them deliberately fell back to eavesdrop. 
ʹHow long have you been teaching at Hogwarts?ʹ Professor Umbridge asked. 
Thirty‐nine years this December,ʹ said Professor McGonagall brusquely, 
snapping her bag shut. 
Professor Umbridge made a note. 
ʹVery well,ʹ she said, ʹyou will receive the results of your inspection in ten daysʹ 
time.ʹ 
ʹI can hardly wait,ʹ said Professor McGonagall, in a coldly indifferent voice, and 
she strode off towards the door. ʹHurry up, you three,ʹ she added, sweeping 
Harry, Ron and Hermione before her. 
Harry could not help giving her a faint smile and could have sworn he received 
one in return. 
He had thought that the next time he would see Umbridge would be in his 
detention that evening, but he was wrong. When they walked down the lawns 
towards the Forest for Care of Magical Creatures, they found her and her 
clipboard waiting for them beside Professor Grubbly‐Plank. 
ʹYou do not usually take this class, is that correct?ʹ Harry heard her ask as they 
arrived at the trestle table where the group of captive Bowtruckles were 
scrabbling around for woodlice like so many living twigs. 
ʹQuite correct,ʹ said Professor Grubbly‐Plank, hands behind her back and 
bouncing on the balls of her feet. ʹI am a substitute teacher standing in for 
Professor Hagrid.ʹ 
Harry exchanged uneasy looks with Ron and Hermione. Malfoy was whispering 
with Crabbe and Goyle; he would surely love this opportunity to tell tales on 
Hagrid to a member of the Ministry. 

ʹHmm,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, dropping her voice, though Harry could still 
hear her quite clearly. ʹ1 wonder ‐ the Headmaster seems strangely reluctant to 
give me any information on the matter ‐ can you tell me what is causing Professor 
Hagridʹs very extended leave of absence?ʹ 
Harry saw Malfoy look up eagerly and watch Umbridge and Grubbly‐Plank 
closely. 
ʹFraid I canʹt,ʹ said Professor Grubbly‐Plank breezily. ʹDonʹt know anything more 
about it than you do. Got an owl from Dumbledore, would I like a couple of 
weeksʹ teaching work. I accepted. Thatʹs as much as I know. Well… shall 1 get 
started then?ʹ 
ʹYes, please do,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, scribbling on her clipboard. 
Umbridge took a different tack in this class and wandered amongst the students, 
questioning them on magical creatures. Most people were able to answer well 
and Harryʹs spirits lifted somewhat; at least the class was not letting Hagrid 
down. 
ʹOverall,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, returning to Professor Grubbly‐Plankʹs side 
after a lengthy interrogation of Dean Thomas, ʹhow do you, as a temporary 
member of staff‐ an objective outsider, 
I suppose you might say — how do you find Hogwarts? Do you feel you receive 
enough support from the school management?ʹ 
ʹOh, yes, Dumbledoreʹs excellent,ʹ said Professor Grubbly‐Plank heartily. ʹYes, 
Iʹm very happy with the way things are run, very happy indeed.ʹ 
Looking politely incredulous, Umbridge made a tiny note on her clipboard and 
went on, ʹAnd what are you planning to cover with this class this year ‐ 
assuming, of course, that Professor Hagrid does not return?ʹ 
ʹOh, Iʹll take them through the creatures that most often come up in OWL,ʹ said 
Professor Grubbly‐Plank. ʹNot much left to do ‐ theyʹve studied unicorns and 
Nifflers, I thought weʹd cover Porlocks and Kneazles, make sure they can 
recognise Crups and Knarls, you know…ʹ 
ʹWell, you seem to know what youʹre doing, at any rate,ʹ said Professor 
Umbridge, making a very obvious tick on her clipboard. Harry did not like the 

emphasis she put on ʹyouʹ and liked it even less when she put her next question 
to Goyle. ʹNow, I hear there have been injuries in this class?ʹ 
Goyle gave a stupid grin. Malfoy hastened to answer the question. 
That was me,ʹ he said. ʹ1 was slashed by a Hippogriff.ʹ 
ʹA Hippogriff?ʹ said Professor Umbridge, now scribbling frantically. 
ʹOnly because he was too stupid to listen to what Hagrid told him to do,ʹ said 
Harry angrily. 
Both Ron and Hermione groaned. Professor Umbridge turned her head slowly in 
Harryʹs direction. 
ʹAnother nights detention, I think,ʹ she said softly. ʹWell, thank you very much, 
Professor Grubbly‐Plank, I think thatʹs all I need here. You will be receiving the 
results of your inspection within ten days.ʹ 
ʹJolly good,ʹ said Professor Grubbly‐Plank, and Professor Umbridge set off back 
across the lawn to the castle. 
* 
It was nearly midnight when Harry left Umbridgeʹs office that night, his hand 
now bleeding so severely that it was staining the scarf he had wrapped around it. 
He expected the common room to be empty when he returned, but Ron and 
Hermione had sat up waiting for him. He was pleased to see them, especially as 
Hermione was disposed to be sympathetic rather than critical. 
ʹHere,ʹ she said anxiously, pushing a small bowl of yellow liquid towards him, 
ʹsoak your hand in that, itʹs a solution of strained and pickled Murtlap tentacles, 
it should help.ʹ 
Harry placed his bleeding, aching hand into the bowl and experienced a 
wonderful feeling of relief. Crookshanks curled around his legs, purring loudly, 
then leapt into his lap and settled down. 
ʹThanks,ʹ he said gratefully, scratching behind Crookshanksʹs ears with his left 
hand. 

ʹI still reckon you should complain about this,ʹ said Ron in a low voice. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry flatly. 
ʹMcGonagall would go nuts if she knew —ʹ 
ʹYeah, she probably would,ʹ said Harry dully. ʹAnd how long do you reckon itʹd 
take Umbridge to pass another decree saying anyone who complains about the 
High Inquisitor gets sacked immediately?ʹ 
Ron opened his mouth to retort but nothing came out and, after a moment, he 
closed it again, defeated. 
ʹSheʹs an awful woman,ʹ said Hermione in a small voice. ʹAwful. You know, 1 
was just saying to Ron when you came in… weʹve got to do something about 
her.ʹ 
ʹI suggested poison,ʹ said Ron grimly. 
ʹNo… I mean, something about what a dreadful teacher she is, and how weʹre 
not going to learn any Defence from her at all,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹWell, what can we do about that?ʹ said Ron, yawning. ʺS too late, isnʹt it? Sheʹs 
got the job, sheʹs here to stay. Fudgeʹll make sure of that.ʹ 
ʹWell,ʹ said Hermione tentatively. ʹYou know, I was thinking today…ʹ she shot a 
slightly nervous look at Harry and then plunged on, ʹI was thinking that ‐ maybe 
the timeʹs come when we should just ‐ just do it ourselves.ʹ 
ʹDo what ourselves?ʹ said Harry suspiciously, still floating his hand in the 
essence of Murtlap tentacles. 
ʹWell ‐ learn Defence Against the Dark Arts ourselves,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹCome off it,ʹ groaned Ron. ʹYou want us to do extra work? Dʹyou realise Harry 
and I are behind on homework again and itʹs only the second week?ʹ 
ʹBut this is much more important than homework!ʹ said Hermione. 
Harry and Ron goggled at her. 

ʹI didnʹt think there was anything in the universe more important than 
homework!ʹ said Ron. 
ʹDonʹt be silly, of course there is,ʹ said Hermione, and Harry saw, with an 
ominous feeling, that her face was suddenly alight with the kind of fervour that 
SPEW usually inspired in her. ʹItʹs about preparing ourselves, like Harry said in 
Umbridgeʹs first lesson, for whatʹs waiting for us out there. Itʹs about making 
sure we really can defend ourselves. If we donʹt learn anything for a whole year ‐
ʹ 
ʹWe canʹt do much by ourselves,ʹ said Ron in a defeated voice. ʹI mean, all right, 
we can go and look jinxes up in the library and try and practise them, I suppose ‐ʹ 
ʹNo, I agree, weʹve gone past the stage where we can just learn things out of 
books,ʹ said Hermione. ʹWe need a teacher, a proper one, who can show us how 
to use the spells and correct us if weʹre going wrong.ʹ 
ʹIf youʹre talking about Lupin…ʹ Harry began. 
ʹNo, no, Iʹm not talking about Lupin,ʹ said Hermione. ʹHeʹs too busy with the 
Order and, anyway, the most we could see him is during Hogsmeade weekends 
and thatʹs not nearly often enough.ʹ 
ʹWho, then?ʹ said Harry, frowning at her. 
Hermione heaved a very deep sigh. 
ʹIsnʹt it obvious?ʹ she said. ʹIʹm talking about you, Harry.ʹ 
There was a momentʹs silence. A light night breeze rattled the windowpanes 
behind Ron, and the fire guttered. 
ʹAbout me what?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹIʹm talking about you teaching us Defence Against the Dark Arts.ʹ 
Harry stared at her. Then he turned to Ron, ready to exchange the exasperated 
looks they sometimes shared when Hermione elaborated on far‐fetched schemes 
like SPEW To Harrys consternation, however, Ron did not look exasperated. 
He was frowning slightly, apparently thinking. Then he said, Thatʹs an idea.ʹ 

ʹWhatʹs an idea?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYou,ʹ said Ron. Teaching us to do it.ʹ 
ʹBut…ʹ 
Harry was grinning now, sure the pair of them were pulling his leg. 
ʹBut Iʹm not a teacher, I canʹt ‐ʹ 
ʹHarry, youʹre the best in the year at Defence Against the Dark Arts,ʹ said 
Hermione. 
ʹMe?ʹ said Harry, now grinning more broadly than ever. ʹNo Iʹm not, youʹve 
beaten me in every test ‐ʹ 
ʹActually, I havenʹt,ʹ said Hermione coolly. ʹYou beat me in our third year ‐ the 
only year we both sat the test and had a teacher who actually knew the subject. 
But Iʹm not talking about test results, Harry. Think what youʹve done]ʹ
ʹHow dʹyou mean?ʹ 
ʹYou know what, Iʹm not sure I want someone this stupid teaching me,ʹ Ron said 
to Hermione, smirking slightly. He turned to Harry. 
ʹLetʹs think,ʹ he said, pulling a face like Goyle concentrating. ʹUh… first year ‐ 
you saved the Philosopherʹs Stone from You‐Know‐Who.ʹ 
ʹBut that was luck,ʹ said Harry, ʹit wasnʹt skill ‐ʹ 
ʹSecond year,ʹ Ron interrupted, ʹyou killed the Basilisk and destroyed Riddle.ʹ 
ʹYeah, but if Fawkes hadnʹt turned up, I ‐ʹ 
Third year,ʹ said Ron, louder still, ʹyou fought off about a hundred Dementors at 
once ‐ʹ 
ʹYou know that was a fluke, if the Time‐Turner hadnʹt ‐ʹ 
ʹLast year,ʹ Ron said, almost shouting now, ʹyou fought off You‐Know‐Who again 
‐ʹ

ʹListen to me!ʹ said Harry, almost angrily, because Ron and Hermione were both 
smirking now. ʹJust listen to me, all right? It sounds great when you say it like 
that, but all that stuff was luck ‐ I didnʹt know what I was doing half the time, I 
didnʹt plan any of it, I just did whatever I could think of, and I nearly always had 
help ‐ʹ 
Ron and Hermione were still smirking and Harry felt his temper rise; he wasnʹt 
even sure why he was feeling so angry. 
ʹDonʹt sit there grinning like you know better than I do, 1 was there, wasnʹt 1?ʹ he 
said heatedly. ʹI know what went on, all right? And I didnʹt get through any of 
that because I was brilliant at Defence Against the Dark Arts, I got through it all 
because ‐ because help came at the right time, or because I guessed right ‐ but I 
just blundered through it all, I didnʹt have a clue what I was doing ‐STOP 
LAUGHING!ʹ 
The bowl of Murtlap essence fell to the floor and smashed. He became aware that 
he was on his feet, though he couldnʹt remember standing up. Crookshanks 
streaked away under a sofa. Ron and Hermioneʹs smiles had vanished. 
ʹYou donʹt know what itʹs like! You ‐ neither of you ‐ youʹve never had to face him, 
have you? You think itʹs just memorising a bunch of spells and throwing them at 
him, like youʹre in class or something? The whole time youʹre sure you know 
thereʹs nothing between you and dying except your own ‐ your own brain or 
guts or whatever ‐like you can think straight when you know youʹre about a 
nanosecond from being murdered, or tortured, or watching your friends die ‐
theyʹve never taught us that in their classes, what itʹs like to deal with things like 
that ‐ and you two sit there acting like Iʹm a clever little boy to be standing here, 
alive, like Diggory was stupid, like he messed up — you just donʹt get it, that 
could just as easily have been me, it would have been if Voldemort hadnʹt 
needed me ‐ʹ 
ʹWe werenʹt saying anything like that, mate,ʹ said Ron, looking aghast. ʹWe 
werenʹt having a go at Diggory, we didnʹt ‐ youʹve got the wrong end of the ‐ʹ 
He looked helplessly at Hermione, whose face was stricken. 
ʹHarry,ʹ she said timidly, ʹdonʹt you see? This… this is exactly why we need 
you… we need to know what itʹs r‐really like… facing him… facing V‐
Voldemort.ʹ 

It was the first time she had ever said Voldemortʹs name and it was this, more 
than anything else, that calmed Harry. Still breathing hard, he sank back into his 
chair, becoming aware as he did so that his hand was throbbing horribly again. 
He wished he had not smashed the bowl of Murtlap essence. 
ʹWell… think about it,ʹ said Hermione quietly. ʹPlease?ʹ 
Harry could not think of anything to say. He was feeling ashamed of his outburst 
already. He nodded, hardly aware of what he was agreeing to. 
Hermione stood up. 
ʹWell, Iʹm off to bed,ʹ she said, in a voice that was clearly as natural as she could 
make it. ʹErm… night.ʹ 
Ron had got to his feet, too. 
ʹComing?ʹ he said awkwardly to Harry. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry. ʹIn… in a minute. Iʹll just clear this up.ʹ 
He indicated the smashed bowl on the floor. Ron nodded and left. 
ʹReparo,ʹ Harry muttered, pointing his wand at the broken pieces of china. They 
flew back together, good as new, but there was no returning the Murtlap essence 
to the bowl. 
He was suddenly so tired he was tempted to sink back into his armchair and 
sleep there, but instead he forced himself to his feet and followed Ron upstairs. 
His restless night was punctuated once more by dreams of long corridors and 
locked doors and he awoke next day with his scar prickling again. 
— CHAPTER SIXTEEN 
In the Hogs Head
Hermione made no mention of Harry giving Defence Against the Dark Arts 
lessons for two whole weeks after her original suggestion. Harryʹs detentions 
with Umbridge were finally over (he doubted whether the words now etched 
into the back of his hand would ever fade entirely); Ron had had four more 
Quidditch practices and not been shouted at during the last two; and all three of 

them had managed to Vanish their mice in Transfiguration (Hermione had 
actually progressed to Vanishing kittens), before the subject was broached again, 
on a wild, blustery evening at the end of September, when the three of them 
were sitting in the library, looking up potion ingredients for Snape. 
ʹI was wondering,ʹ Hermione said suddenly, ʹwhether youʹd thought any more 
about Defence Against the Dark Arts, Harry.ʹ 
ʹCourse I have,ʹ said Harry grumpily, ʹcanʹt forget it, can we, with that hag 
teaching us ‐ʹ 
ʹI meant the idea Ron and I had ‐ʹ Ron cast her an alarmed, threatening kind of 
look. She frowned at him, ʹ‐ Oh, all right, the idea I had, then ‐ about you 
teaching us.ʹ 
Harry did not answer at once. He pretended to be perusing a page of Asiatic 
Anti‐Venoms, because he did not want to say what was in his mind. 
He had given the matter a great deal of thought over the past fortnight. 
Sometimes it seemed an insane idea, just as it had on the night Hermione had 
proposed it, but at others, he had found himself thinking about the spells that 
had served him best in his various encounters with Dark creatures and Death 
Eaters ‐ found himself, in fact, subconsciously planning lessons… 
ʹWell,ʹ he said slowly, when he could no longer pretend to find Asiatic Anti‐
Venoms interesting, ʹyeah, 1 ‐ Iʹve thought about it a bit.ʹ 
ʹAnd?ʹ said Hermione eagerly. 
ʹI dunno,ʹ said Harry, playing for time. He looked up at Ron. 
ʹI thought it was a good idea from the start,ʹ said Ron, who seemed keener to join 
in this conversation now that he was sure Harry was not going to start shouting 
again. 
Harry shifted uncomfortably in his chair. 
ʹYou did listen to what I said about a load of it being luck, didnʹt you?ʹ 
ʹYes, Harry,ʹ said Hermione gently, ʹbut all the same, thereʹs no point pretending 
that youʹre not good at Defence Against the Dark Arts, because you are. You 

were the only person last year who could throw off the Imperius Curse 
completely, you can produce a Patronus, you can do all sorts of stuff that full‐
grown wizards canʹt, Viktor always said ‐ʹ 
Ron looked round at her so fast he appeared to crick his neck. Rubbing it, he 
said, ʹYeah? What did Vicky say?ʹ 
ʹHo ho,ʹ said Hermione in a bored voice. ʹHe said Harry knew how to do stuff 
even he didnʹt, and he was in the final year at Durmstrang.ʹ 
Ron was looking at Hermione suspiciously. 
ʹYouʹre not still in contact with him, are you?ʹ 
ʹSo what if I am?ʹ said Hermione coolly, though her face was a little pink. ʹI can 
have a pen‐pal if I ‐ʹ 
ʹHe didnʹt only want to be your pen‐pal,ʹ said Ron accusingly. 
Hermione shook her head exasperatedly and, ignoring Ron, who was continuing 
to watch her, said to Harry, ʹWell, what do you think? Will you teach us?ʹ 
ʹJust you and Ron, yeah?ʹ 
ʹWell,ʹ said Hermione, looking a mite anxious again. ʹWell… now, donʹt fly off 
the handle again, Harry, please… but I really think you ought to teach anyone 
who wants to learn. I mean, weʹre talking about defending ourselves against V‐
Voldemort. Oh, donʹt be pathetic, Ron. It doesnʹt seem fair if we donʹt offer the 
chance to other people.ʹ 
Harry considered this for a moment, then said, ʹYeah, but I 
doubt anyone except you two would want to be taught by me. Iʹm a nutter, 
remember?ʹ 
ʹWell, I think you might be surprised how many people would be interested in 
hearing what youʹve got to sayʹ said Hermione seriously. ʹLook,ʹ she leaned 
towards him ‐ Ron, who was still watching her with a frown on his face, leaned 
forwards to listen too ‐ ʹyou know the first weekend in Octoberʹs a Hogsmeade 
weekend? How would it be if we tell anyone whoʹs interested to meet us in the 
village and we can talk it over?ʹ 

ʹWhy do we have to do it outside school?ʹ said Ron. 
ʹBecause,ʹ said Hermione, returning to the diagram of the Chinese Chomping 
Cabbage she was copying, ʹI donʹt think Umbridge would be very happy if she 
found out what we were up to.ʹ 
* 
Harry had been looking forward to the weekend trip into Hogsmeade, but there 
was one thing worrying him. Sirius had maintained a stony silence since he had 
appeared in the fire at the beginning of September; Harry knew they had made 
him angry by saying they didnʹt want him to come ‐ but he still worried from 
time to time that Sirius might throw caution to the winds and turn up anyway. 
What were they going to do if the great black dog came bounding up the street 
towards them in Hogsmeade, perhaps under the nose of Draco Malfoy? 
ʹWell, you canʹt blame him for wanting to get out and about,ʹ said Ron, when 
Harry discussed his fears with him and Hermione. ʹI mean, heʹs been on the run 
for over two years, hasnʹt he, and I know that canʹt have been a laugh, but at least 
he was free, wasnʹt he? And now heʹs just shut up all the time with that ghastly 
elf.ʹ 
Hermione scowled at Ron, but otherwise ignored the slight on Kreacher. 
The trouble is,ʹ she said to Harry, ʹuntil V‐Voldemort ‐ oh, for heavenʹs sake, Ron ‐ 
comes out into the open, Sirius is going to have to stay hidden, isnʹt he? I mean, 
the stupid Ministry isnʹt going to realise Sirius is innocent until they accept that 
Dumbledoreʹs been telling the truth about him all along. And once the fools start 
catching real Death Eaters again, itʹll be obvious Sirius isnʹt one… I mean, he 
hasnʹt got the Mark, for one thing.ʹ 
ʹI donʹt reckon heʹd be stupid enough to turn up,ʹ said Ron brac‐ingly. 
ʹDumbledoreʹd go mad if he did and Sirius listens to Dumbledore even if he 
doesnʹt like what he hears.ʹ 
When Harry continued to look worried, Hermione said, ʹListen, Ron and I have 
been sounding out people who we thought might want to learn some proper 
Defence Against the Dark Arts, and there are a couple who seem interested. 
Weʹve told them to meet us in Hogsmeade.ʹ 
ʹRight,ʹ said Harry vaguely, his mind still on Sirius. 

ʹDonʹt worry, Harryʹ Hermione said quietly. ʹYouʹve got enough on your plate 
without Sirius, too.ʹ 
She was quite right, of course, he was barely keeping up with his homework, 
though he was doing much better now that he was no longer spending every 
evening in detention with Umbridge. Ron was even further behind with his work 
than Harry, because while they both had Quidditch practice twice a week, Ron 
also had his prefect duties. However, Hermione, who was taking more subjects 
than either of them, had not only finished all her homework but was also finding 
time to knit more elf clothes. Harry had to admit that she was getting better; it 
was now almost always possible to distinguish between the hats and the socks. 
The morning of the Hogsmeade visit dawned bright but windy. After breakfast 
they queued up in front of Filch, who matched their names to the long list of 
students who had permission from their parents or guardian to visit the village. 
With a slight pang, Harry remembered that if it hadnʹt been for Sirius, he would 
not have been going at all. 
When Harry reached Filch, the caretaker gave a great sniff as though trying to 
detect a whiff of something from Harry. Then he gave a curt nod that set his 
jowls aquiver again and Harry walked on, out on to the stone steps and the cold, 
sunlit day. 
ʹEr ‐ why was Filch sniffing you?ʹ asked Ron, as he, Harry and Hermione set off 
at a brisk pace down the wide drive to the gates. 
ʹI suppose he was checking for the smell of Dungbombs,ʹ said Harry with a small 
laugh. ʹI forgot to tell you…ʹ 
And he recounted the story of sending his letter to Sirius and Filch bursting in 
seconds later, demanding to see the letter. To his slight surprise, Hermione found 
this story highly interesting, much more, indeed, than he did himself. 
ʹHe said he was tipped off you were ordering Dungbombs? But who tipped him 
off?ʹ 
ʹI dunno,ʹ said Harry, shrugging. ʹMaybe Malfoy, heʹd think it was a laugh.ʹ 
They walked between the tall stone pillars topped with winged boars and turned 
left on to the road into the village, the wind whipping their hair into their eyes. 

ʹMalfoy?ʹ said Hermione, sceptically. ʹWell… yes… maybe…ʹ 
And she remained deep in thought all the way into the outskirts of Hogsmeade. 
ʹWhere are we going, anyway?ʹ Harry asked. The Three Broomsticks?ʹ 
ʹOh ‐ no,ʹ said Hermione, coming out of her reverie, ʹno, itʹs always packed and 
really noisy. Iʹve told the others to meet us in the Hogʹs Head, that other pub, 
you know the one, itʹs not on the main road. I think itʹs a bit… you know… 
dodgy… but students donʹt normally go in there, so I donʹt think weʹll be 
overheard.ʹ 
They walked down the main street past Zonkoʹs Wizarding Joke Shop, where 
they were not surprised to see Fred, George and Lee Jordan, past the post office, 
from which owls issued at regular intervals, and turned up a side‐street at the 
top of which stood a small inn. A battered wooden sign hung from a rusty 
bracket over the door, with a picture on it of a wild boarʹs severed head, leaking 
blood on to the white cloth around it. The sign creaked in the wind as they 
approached. All three of them hesitated outside the door. 
ʹWell, come on,ʹ said Hermione, slightly nervously. Harry led the way inside. 
It was not at all like the Three Broomsticks, whose large bar gave an impression 
of gleaming warmth and cleanliness. The Hogʹs Head bar comprised one small, 
dingy and very dirty room that smelled strongly of something that might have 
been goats. The bay windows were so encrusted with grime that very little 
daylight could permeate the room, which was lit instead with the stubs of 
candles sitting on rough wooden tables. The floor seemed at first glance to be 
compressed earth, though as Harry stepped on to it he realised that there was 
stone beneath what seemed to be the accumulated filth of centuries. 
Harry remembered Hagrid mentioning this pub in his first year: ʹYeh get a lot oʹ 
funny folk in the Hogs Head/ he had said, explaining how he had won a 
dragonʹs egg from a hooded stranger there. At the time Harry had wondered 
why Hagrid had not found it odd that the stranger kept his face hidden 
throughout their encounter; now he saw that keeping your face hidden was 
something of a fashion in the Hogʹs Head. There was a man at the bar whose 
whole head was wrapped in dirty grey bandages, though he was still managing 
to gulp endless glasses of some smoking, fiery substance through a slit over his 
mouth; two figures shrouded in hoods sat at a table in one of the windows; 

Harry might have thought them Dementors if they had not been talking in strong 
Yorkshire accents, and in a shadowy corner beside the fireplace sat a witch with 
a thick, black veil that fell to her toes. They could just see the tip of her nose 
because it caused the veil to protrude slightly. 
ʹI donʹt know about this, Hermione,ʹ Harry muttered, as they crossed to the bar. 
He was looking particularly at the heavily veiled witch. ʹHas it occurred to you 
Umbridge might be under that?ʹ 
Hermione cast an appraising eye over the veiled figure. 
ʹUmbridge is shorter than that woman,ʹ she said quietly. ʹAnd anyway, even if 
Umbridge does come in here thereʹs nothing she can do to stop us, Harry, 
because Iʹve double‐ and triple‐checked the school rules. Weʹre not out of 
bounds; I specifically asked Professor Flitwick whether students were allowed to 
come in the Hogʹs Head, and he said yes, but he advised me strongly to bring our 
own glasses. And Iʹve looked up everything I can think of about study groups 
and homework groups and theyʹre definitely allowed. I just donʹt think itʹs a 
good idea if we parade what weʹre doing.ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry drily, ʹespecially as itʹs not exactly a homework group youʹre 
planning, is it?ʹ 
The barman sidled towards them out of a back room. He was a grumpy‐looking 
old man with a great deal of long grey hair and beard. He was tall and thin and 
looked vaguely familiar to Harry. 

 
ʹWhat?ʹ he grunted. 
Three Butterbeers, please,ʹ said Hermione. 
The man reached beneath the counter and pulled up three very dusty, very dirty 
bottles, which he slammed on the bar. 
ʹSix Sickles,ʹ he said. 

Til get them,ʹ said Harry quickly, passing over the silver. The barmanʹs eyes 
travelled over Harry, resting for a fraction of a second on his scar. Then he 
turned away and deposited Harryʹs money in an ancient wooden till whose 
drawer slid open automatically to receive it. Harry, Ron and Hermione retreated 
to the furthest table from the bar and sat down, looking around. The man in the 
dirty grey bandages rapped the counter with his knuckles and received another 
smoking drink from the barman. 
ʹYou know what?ʹ Ron murmured, looking over at the bar with enthusiasm. ʹWe 
could order anything we liked in here. I bet that bloke would sell us anything, he 
wouldnʹt care. Iʹve always wanted to try Firewhisky ‐ʹ 
ʹYou ‐ are ‐ a ‐ prefect,ʹ snarled Hermione. 
ʹOh,ʹ said Ron, the smile fading from his face. ʹYeah…ʹ 
ʹSo, who did you say is supposed to be meeting us?ʹ Harry asked, wrenching 
open the rusty top of his Butterbeer and taking a swig. 
ʹJust a couple of people,ʹ Hermione repeated, checking her watch and looking 
anxiously towards the door. ʹI told them to be here about now and Iʹm sure they 
all know where it is ‐ oh, look, this might be them now.ʹ 
The door of the pub had opened. A thick band of dusty sunlight split the room in 
two for a moment and then vanished, blocked by the incoming rush of a crowd 
of people. 
First came Neville with Dean and Lavender, who were closely followed by 
Parvati and Padma Patil with (Harryʹs stomach did a back‐flip) Cho and one of 
her usually‐giggling girlfriends, then (on her own and looking so dreamy she 
might have walked in by accident) Luna Lovegood; then Katie Bell, Alicia 
Spinnet and Angelina Johnson, Colin and Dennis Creevey, Ernie Macmillan, 
Justin Finch‐Fletchley, Hannah Abbott, a Hufflepuff girl with a long plait down 
her back whose name Harry did not know; three Ravenclaw boys he was pretty 
sure were called Anthony Goldstein, Michael Corner and Terry Boot, Ginny, 
closely followed by a tall skinny blond boy with an upturned nose whom Harry 
recognised vaguely as being a member of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team and, 
bringing up the rear, Fred and George Weasley with their friend Lee Jordan, all 
three of whom were carrying large paper bags crammed with Zonkoʹs 
merchandise. 

ʹA couple of people?ʹ said Harry hoarsely to Hermione. ʹA couple of people?ʹ 
ʹYes, well, the idea seemed quite popular,ʹ said Hermione happily ʹRon, do you 
want to pull up some more chairs?ʹ 
The barman had frozen in the act of wiping out a glass with a rag so filthy it 
looked as though it had never been washed. Possibly, he had never seen his pub 
so full. 
ʹHi,ʹ said Fred, reaching the bar first and counting his companions quickly, ʹcould 
we have… twenty‐five Butterbeers, please?ʹ 
The barman glared at him for a moment, then, throwing down his rag irritably as 
though he had been interrupted in something very important, he started passing 
up dusty Butterbeers from under the bar. 
ʹCheers,ʹ said Fred, handing them out. ʹCough up, everyone, I havenʹt got enough 
gold for all of these…ʹ 
Harry watched numbly as the large chattering group took their beers from Fred 
and rummaged in their robes to find coins. He could not imagine what all these 
people had turned up for until the horrible thought occurred to him that they 
might be expecting some kind of speech, at which he rounded on Hermione. 
ʹWhat have you been telling people?ʹ he said in a low voice. ʹWhat are they 
expecting?ʹ 
ʹIʹve told you, they just want to hear what youʹve got to say,ʹ said Hermione 
soothingly; but Harry continued to look at her so furiously that she added 
quickly, ʹyou donʹt have to do anything yet, Iʹll speak to them first.ʹ 
ʹHi, Harry,ʹ said Neville, beaming and taking a seat opposite him. 
Harry tried to smile back, but did not speak; his mouth was exceptionally dry. 
Cho had just smiled at him and sat down on Ronʹs right. Her friend, who had 
curly reddish‐blonde hair, did not smile, but gave Harry a thoroughly 
mistrustful look which plainly told him that, given her way, she would not be 
here at all. 
In twos and threes the new arrivals settled around Harry, Ron and Hermione, 
some looking rather excited, others curious, Luna Lovegood gazing dreamily 

into space. When everybody had pulled up a chair, the chatter died out. Every 
eye was upon Harry. 
ʹEr,ʹ said Hermione, her voice slightly higher than usual out of nerves. ʹWell ‐ er ‐ 
hi.ʹ 
The group focused its attention on her instead, though eyes continued to dart 
back regularly to Harry. 
ʹWell… erm… well, you know why youʹre here. Erm… well, Harry here had the 
idea ‐ I meanʹ (Harry had thrown her a sharp look) ʹI had the idea ‐ that it might 
be good if people who wanted to study Defence Against the Dark Arts ‐ and I 
mean, really study it, you know, not the rubbish that Umbridge is doing with us 
‐ʹ (Hermioneʹs voice became suddenly much stronger and more confident) ʹ‐ 
because nobody could call that Defence Against the Dark Arts ‐ʹ (ʹHear, hear,ʹ 
said Anthony Goldstein, and Hermione looked heartened) ʹ‐ Well, I thought it 
would be good if we, well, took matters into our own hands.ʹ 
She paused, looked sideways at Harry, and went on, ʹAnd by that I mean 
learning how to defend ourselves properly, not just in theory but doing the real 
spells ‐ʹ 
ʹYou want to pass your Defence Against the Dark Arts OWL too, though, I bet?ʹ 
said Michael Corner, who was watching her closely. 
ʹOf course I do,ʹ said Hermione at once. ʹBut more than that, I want to be properly 
trained in defence because… because…ʺ she took a great breath and finished, 
ʹbecause Lord Voldemort is back.ʹ 
The reaction was immediate and predictable. Choʹs friend shrieked and slopped 
Butterbeer down herself; Terry Boot gave a kind of involuntary twitch; Padma 
Patil shuddered, and Neville gave an odd yelp that he managed to turn into a 
cough. All of them, however, looked fixedly, even eagerly, at Harry. 
ʹWell… thatʹs the plan, anywayʹ said Hermione. ʹIf you want to join us, we need 
to decide how weʹre going to ‐ʹ 
ʹWhereʹs the proof You‐Know‐Whoʹs back?ʹ said the blond Hufflepuff player in a 
rather aggressive voice. 
ʹWell, Dumbledore believes it ‐ʹ Hermione began. 

ʹYou mean, Dumbledore believes him,ʹ said the blond boy, nodding at Harry. 
ʹWho are you?ʹ said Ron, rather rudely. 
ʹZacharias Smith,ʹ said the boy, ʹand I think weʹve got the right to know exactly 
what makes him say You‐Know‐Whoʹs back.ʹ 
ʹLook,ʹ said Hermione, intervening swiftly, ʹthatʹs really not what this meeting 
was supposed to be about ‐ʹ 
ʹItʹs OK, Hermione,ʹ said Harry. 
It had just dawned on him why there were so many people there. He thought 
Hermione should have seen this coming. Some of these people ‐ maybe even 
most of them ‐ had turned up in the hopes of hearing Harryʹs story firsthand. 
ʹWhat makes me say You‐Know‐Whoʹs back?ʹ he repeated, looking Zacharias 
straight in the face. ʹI saw him. But Dumbledore told the whole school what 
happened last year, and if you didnʹt believe him, you wonʹt believe me, and Iʹm 
not wasting an afternoon trying to convince anyone.ʹ 
The whole group seemed to have held its breath while Harry spoke. Harry had 
the impression that even the barman was listening. He was wiping the same 
glass with the filthy rag, making it steadily dirtier. 
Zacharias said dismissively, ʹAll Dumbledore told us last year was that Cedric 
Diggory got killed by You‐Know‐Who and that you brought Diggoryʹs body 
back to Hogwarts. He didnʹt give us details, he didnʹt tell us exactly how Diggory 
got murdered, I think weʹd all like to know ‐ʹ 
ʹIf youʹve come to hear exactly what it looks like when Voldemort murders 
someone I canʹt help you,ʹ Harry said. His temper, always so close to the surface 
these days, was rising again. He did not take his eyes from Zacharias Smithʹs 
aggressive face, and was determined not to look at Cho. ʹI donʹt want to talk 
about Cedric Diggory, all right? So if thatʹs what youʹre here for, you might as 
well clear out.ʹ 
He cast an angry look in Hermioneʹs direction. This was, he felt, all her fault; she 
had decided to display him like some sort of freak and of course they had all 
turned up to see just how wild his story was. But none of them left their seats, 
not even Zacharias Smith, though he continued to gaze intently at Harry. 

ʹSo,ʹ said Hermione, her voice very high‐pitched again. ʹSo… like I was saying… 
if you want to learn some defence, then we need to work out how weʹre going to 
do it, how often weʹre going to meet and where weʹre going to ‐ʹ 
ʹIs it true,ʹ interrupted the girl with the long plait down her back, looking at 
Harry, ʹthat you can produce a Patronus?ʹ 
There was a murmur of interest around the group at this. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry slightly defensively. 
ʹA corporeal Patronus?ʹ 
The phrase stirred something in Harryʹs memory. 
ʹEr ‐ you donʹt know Madam Bones, do you?ʹ he asked. 
The girl smiled. 
ʹSheʹs my auntie,ʹ she said. ʹIʹm Susan Bones. She told me about your hearing. So ‐ 
is it really true? You make a stag Patronus?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹBlimey, Harry!ʹ said Lee, looking deeply impressed. ʹI never knew that!ʹ 
ʹMum told Ron not to spread it around,ʹ said Fred, grinning at Harry. ʹShe said 
you got enough attention as it was.ʹ 
ʹSheʹs not wrong,ʹ mumbled Harry, and a couple of people laughed. 
The veiled witch sitting alone shifted very slightly in her seat. 
ʹAnd did you kill a Basilisk with that sword in Dumbledoreʹs office?ʹ demanded 
Terry Boot. Thatʹs what one of the portraits on the wall told me when I was in 
there last year…ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ yeah, I did, yeah,ʹ said Harry. 
Justin Finch‐Fletchley whistled; the Creevey brothers exchanged awestruck looks 
and Lavender Brown said ʹWow!ʹ softly. Harry was feeling slightly hot around 
the collar now; he was determinedly looking anywhere but at Cho. 

ʹAnd in our first year,ʹ said Neville to the group at large, ʹhe saved that 
Philological Stone ‐ʹ 
ʹPhilosopherʹs,ʹ hissed Hermione. 
ʹYes, that ‐ from You‐Know‐Who,ʹ finished Neville. 
Hannah Abbottʹs eyes were as round as Galleons. 
ʹAnd thatʹs not to mention,ʹ said Cho (Harryʹs eyes snapped across to her; she 
was looking at him, smiling; his stomach did another somersault) ʹall the tasks he 
had to get through in the Triwizard Tournament last year ‐ getting past dragons 
and merpeople and Acromantula and things…ʹ 
There was a murmur of impressed agreement around the table. Harryʹs insides 
were squirming. He was trying to arrange his face so that he did not look too 
pleased with himself. The fact that Cho had just praised him made it much, much 
harder for him to say the thing he had sworn to himself he would tell them. 
ʹLook,ʹ he said, and everyone fell silent at once, ʹ1… I donʹt want to sound like Iʹm 
trying to be modest or anything, but… I had a lot of help with all that stuff…ʹ 
ʹNot with the dragon, you didnʹt,ʹ said Michael Corner at once. That was a 
seriously cool bit of flying…ʹ 
ʹYeah, well ‐ʹ said Harry, feeling it would be churlish to disagree. 
ʹAnd nobody helped you get rid of those Dementors this summer,ʹ said Susan 
Bones. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry, ʹno, OK, 1 know I did bits of it without help, but the point Iʹm 
trying to make is ‐ʹ 
ʹAre you trying to weasel out of showing us any of this stuff?ʹ said Zacharias 
Smith. 
ʹHereʹs an idea,ʹ said Ron loudly, before Harry could speak, ʹwhy donʹt you shut 
your mouth?ʹ 

Perhaps the word ʹweaselʹ had affected Ron particularly strongly. In any case, he 
was now looking at Zacharias as though he would like nothing better than to 
thump him. Zacharias flushed. 
ʹWell, weʹve all turned up to learn from him and now heʹs telling us he canʹt 
really do any of it,ʹ he said. 
ʹThatʹs not what he said, ʹsnarled Fred. 
ʹWould you like us to clean out your ears for you?ʹ enquired George, pulling a 
long and lethal‐looking metal instrument from inside one of the Zonkoʹs bags. 
ʹOr any part of your body, really, weʹre not fussy where we stick this,ʹ said Fred. 
ʹYes, well,ʹ said Hermione hastily, ʹmoving on… the point is, are we agreed we 
want to take lessons from Harry?ʹ 
There was a murmur of general agreement. Zacharias folded his arms and said 
nothing, though perhaps this was because he was too busy keeping an eye on the 
instrument in Fredʹs hand. 
ʹRight,ʹ said Hermione, looking relieved that something had at last been settled. 
ʹWell, then, the next question is how often we do it. I really donʹt think thereʹs 
any point in meeting less than once a week ‐ʹ 
ʹHang on,ʹ said Angelina, ʹwe need to make sure this doesnʹt clash with our 
Quidditch practice.ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Cho, ʹnor with ours.ʹ 
ʹNor ours,ʹ added Zacharias Smith. 
ʹIʹm sure we can find a night that suits everyone,ʹ said Hermione, slightly 
impatiently, ʹbut you know, this is rather important, weʹre talking about learning 
to defend ourselves against V‐Voldemortʹs Death Eaters ‐ʹ 
ʹWell said!ʹ barked Ernie Macmillan, who Harry had been expecting to speak 
long before this. ʹPersonally I think this is really important, possibly more 
important than anything else weʹll do this year, even with our OWLs coming up!ʹ 

He looked around impressively, as though waiting for people to cry ʹSurely not!ʹ 
When nobody spoke, he went on, ʹI, personally am at a loss to see why the 
Ministry has foisted such a useless teacher on us at this critical period. 
Obviously, they are in denial about the return of You‐Know‐Who, but to give us 
a teacher who is trying to actively prevent us from using defensive spells ‐ʹ 
ʹWe think the reason Umbridge doesnʹt want us trained in Defence Against the 
Dark Arts,ʹ said Hermione, ʹis that sheʹs got some… some mad idea that 
Dumbledore could use the students in the school as a kind of private army. She 
thinks heʹd mobilise us against the Ministry.ʹ 
Nearly everybody looked stunned at this news; everybody except Luna 
Lovegood, who piped up, ʹWell, that makes sense. After all, Cornelius Fudge has 
got his own private armyʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry, completely thrown by this unexpected piece of information. 
ʹYes, heʹs got an army of Heliopaths,ʹ said Luna solemnly. 
ʹNo, he hasnʹt,ʹ snapped Hermione. 
ʹYes, he has,ʹ said Luna. 
ʹWhat are Heliopaths?ʹ asked Neville, looking blank. 
Theyʹre spirits of fire,ʹ said Luna, her protuberant eyes widening so that she 
looked madder than ever, ʹgreat tall flaming creatures that gallop across the 
ground burning everything in front of ‐ʹ 
They donʹt exist, Neville,ʹ said Hermione tartly. 
ʹOh, yes, they do!ʹ said Luna angrily. 
ʹIʹm sorry, but whereʹs the proof of that?ʹ snapped Hermione. 
There are plenty of eye‐witness accounts. Just because youʹre so narrow‐minded 
you need to have everything shoved under your nose before you ‐ʹ 
ʹHem, hem,ʹ said Ginny, in such a good imitation of Professor Umbridge that 
several people looked around in alarm and then laughed. ʹWerenʹt we trying to 
decide how often weʹre going to meet and have defence lessons?ʹ 

ʹYes,ʹ said Hermione at once, ʹyes, we were, youʹre right, Ginny.ʹ 
Well, once a week sounds cool,ʹ said Lee Jordan. 
ʹAs long as ‐ʹ began Angelina. 
ʹYes, yes, we know about the Quidditch,ʹ said Hermione in a tense voice. Well, 
the other thing to decide is where weʹre going to meet…ʹ 
This was rather more difficult; the whole group fell silent. 
ʹLibrary?ʹ suggested Katie Bell after a few moments. 
ʹ1 canʹt see Madam Pince being too chuffed with us doing jinxes in the library,ʹ 
said Harry. 
ʹMaybe an unused classroom?ʹ said Dean. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Ron, ʹMcGonagall might let us have hers, she did when Harry was 
practising for the Triwizard.ʹ 
But Harry was pretty certain that McGonagall would not be so accommodating 
this time. For all that Hermione had said about study and homework groups 
being allowed, he had the distinct feeling that this one might be considered a lot 
more rebellious. 
ʹRight, well, weʹll try to find somewhere,ʹ said Hermione. ʹWeʹll send a message 
round to everybody when weʹve got a time and a place for the first meeting.ʹ 
She rummaged in her bag and produced parchment and a quill, then hesitated, 
rather as though she was steeling herself to say something. 
ʹI ‐ I think everybody should write their name down, just so we know who was 
here. But I also think,ʹ she took a deep breath, ʹthat we all ought to agree not to 
shout about what weʹre doing. So if you sign, youʹre agreeing not to tell 
Umbridge or anybody else what weʹre up to.ʹ 
Fred reached out for the parchment and cheerfully wrote his signature, but 
Harry noticed at once that several people looked less than happy at the prospect 
of putting their names on the list. 

ʹEr…ʹ said Zacharias slowly, not taking the parchment that George was trying to 
pass to him, ʹwell… Iʹm sure Ernie will tell me when the meeting is.ʹ 
But Ernie was looking rather hesitant about signing, too. Hermione raised her 
eyebrows at him. 
ʹI ‐ well, we are prefects,ʹ Ernie burst out. ʹAnd if this list was found… well, I mean 
to say… you said yourself, if Umbridge finds out ‐ʹ 
ʹYou just said this group was the most important thing youʹd do this year,ʹ Harry 
reminded him. 
ʹI ‐ yes,ʹ said Ernie, ʹyes, I do believe that, itʹs just ‐ʹ 
ʹErnie, do you really think Iʹd leave that list lying around?ʹ said Hermione testily. 
ʹNo. No, of course not,ʹ said Ernie, looking slightly less anxious. ʹI ‐ yes, of course 
Iʹll sign.ʹ 
Nobody raised objections after Ernie, though Harry saw Choʹs friend give her a 
rather reproachful look before adding her own name. When the last perscfri ‐ 
Zacharias ‐ had signed, Hermione took the parchment back and slipped it 
carefully into her bag. There was an odd feeling in the group now. It was as 
though they had just signed some kind of contract. 
ʹWell, timeʹs ticking on,ʹ said Fred briskly, getting to his feet. ʹGeorge, Lee and I 
have got items of a sensitive nature to purchase, weʹll be seeing you all later.ʹ 
In twos and threes the rest of the group took their leave, too. 
Cho made rather a business of fastening the catch on her bag before leaving, her 
long dark curtain of hair swinging forwards to hide her face, but her friend stood 
beside her, arms folded, clicking her tongue, so that Cho had little choice but to 
leave with her. As her friend ushered her through the door, Cho looked back and 
waved at Harry. 
ʹWell, I think that went quite well,ʹ said Hermione happily, as she, Harry and 
Ron walked out of the Hogʹs Head into the bright sunlight a few moments later. 
Harry and Ron were clutching their bottles of Butterbeer. 

That Zacharias blokeʹs a wart,ʹ said Ron, who was glowering after the figure of 
Smith, just discernible in the distance. 
ʹI donʹt like him much, either,ʹ admitted Hermione, ʹbut he overheard me talking 
to Ernie and Hannah at the Hufflepuff table and he seemed really interested in 
coming, so what could I say? But the more people the better really ‐ I mean, 
Michael Corner and his friends wouldnʹt have come if he hadnʹt been going out 
with Ginny ‐ʹ 
Ron, who had been draining the last few drops from his Butterbeer bottle, 
gagged and sprayed Butterbeer down his front. 
ʹHeʹs WHAT?ʹ spluttered Ron, outraged, his ears now resembling curls of raw 
beef. ʹSheʹs going out with ‐ my sisterʹs going ‐ what dʹyou mean, Michael 
Corner?ʹ 
ʹWell, thatʹs why he and his friends came, I think ‐ well, theyʹre obviously 
interested in learning defence, but if Ginny hadnʹt told Michael what was going 
on ‐ʹ 
When did this ‐ when did she ‐?ʹ 
They met at the Yule Ball and got together at the end of last year,ʹ said Hermione 
composedly. They had turned into the High Street and she paused outside 
Scrivenshaftʹs Quill Shop, where there was a handsome display of pheasant 
feather quills in the window. ʹHmm… I could do with a new quill.ʹ 
She turned into the shop. Harry and Ron followed her. 
Which one was Michael Corner?ʹ Ron demanded furiously. 
The dark one,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹI didnʹt like him,ʹ said Ron at once. 
ʹBig surprise,ʹ said Hermione under her breath. 
ʹBut,ʹ said Ron, following Hermione along a row of quills in copper pots, ʹ1 
thought Ginny fancied Harry!ʹ 
Hermione looked at him rather pityingly and shook her head. 

ʹGinny used to fancy Harry, but she gave up on him months ago. Not that she 
doesnʹt like you, of course,ʹ she added kindly to Harry while she examined a long 
black and gold quill. 
Harry, whose head was still full of Choʹs parting wave, did not find this subject 
quite as interesting as Ron, who was positively quivering with indignation, but it 
did bring something home to him that until now he had not really registered. 
ʹSo thatʹs why she talks now?ʹ he asked Hermione. ʹShe never used to talk in front 
of me.ʹ 
ʹExactly,ʹ said Hermione. ʹYes, I think Iʹll have this one…ʹ 
She went up to the counter and handed over fifteen Sickles and two Knuts, with 
Ron still breathing down her neck. 
ʹRon,ʹ she said severely as she turned and trod on his feet, ʹthis is exactly why 
Ginny hasnʹt told you sheʹs seeing Michael, she knew youʹd take it badly. So 
donʹt harp on about it, for heavenʹs sake.ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean? Whoʹs taking anything badly? Iʹm not going to harp on about 
anything…ʹ Ron continued to chunter under his breath all the way down the 
street. 
Hermione rolled her eyes at Harry and then said in an undertone, while Ron was 
still muttering imprecations about Michael Corner, ʹAnd talking about Michael 
and Ginny… what about Cho and you?ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean?ʹ said Harry quickly. 
It was as though boiling water was rising rapidly inside him; a burning sensation 
that was causing his face to smart in the cold ‐had he been that obvious? 
ʹWell,ʹ said Hermione, smiling slightly, ʹshe just couldnʹt keep her eyes off you, 
could she?ʹ 
Harry had never before appreciated just how beautiful the village of Hogsmeade 
was. 
— CHAPTER SEVENTEEN — 

Educational Decree Number Twenty‐four
Harry felt happier for the rest of the weekend than he had done all term. He and 
Ron spent much of Sunday catching up with all their homework again, and 
although this could hardly be called fun, the last burst of autumn sunshine 
persisted, so rather than sitting hunched over tables in the common room they 
took their work outside and lounged in the shade of a large beech tree on the 
edge of the lake. Hermione, who of course was up to date with all her work, 
brought more wool outside with her and bewitched her knitting needles so that 
they flashed and clicked in midair beside her, producing more hats and scarves. 
Knowing they were doing something to resist Umbridge and the Ministry, and 
that he was a key part of the rebellion, gave Harry a feeling of immense 
satisfaction. He kept reliving Saturdays meeting in his mind: all those people, 
coming to him to learn Defence Against the Dark Arts… and the looks on their 
faces as they had heard some of the things he had done… and Cho praising his 
performance in the Triwizard Tournament ‐ knowing all those people did not 
think him a lying weirdo, but someone to be admired, buoyed him up so much 
that he was still cheerful on Monday morning, despite the imminent prospect of 
all his least favourite classes. 
He and Ron headed downstairs from their dormitory, discussing Angelinas idea 
that they were to work on a new move called the Sloth Grip Roll during that 
nightʹs Quidditch practice, and not until they were halfway across the sunlit 
common room did they notice the addition to the room that had already 
attracted the attention of a small group of people. 
A large sign had been affixed to the Gryffindor noticeboard; so large it covered 
everything else on it ‐ the lists of secondhand spellbooks for sale, the regular 
reminders of school rules from Argus Filch, the Quidditch team training 
timetable, the offers to barter certain Chocolate Frog Cards for others, the 
Weasleysʹ latest advertisement for testers, the dates of the Hogsmeade weekends 
and the lost and found notices. The new sign was printed in large black letters 
and there was a highly official‐looking seal at the bottom beside a neat and curly 
signature. 
BY ORDER OF THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS
All student organisations, societies, teams, groups and dubs are henceforth disbanded.

An organisation, society, team, group or club is hereby defined as a regular meeting of 
three or more students.
Permission to re‐form may be sought from the High Inquisitor (Professor Umbridge).
No student organisation, society, team, group or club may exist without the knowledge 
and approval of the High Inquisitor.
Any student found to have formed, or to belong to, an organisa‐tion, society, team, group 
or club that has not been approved by the High Inquisitor will be expelled.
The above is in accordance with Educational Decree Number Twenty‐four.
Signed: Dolores Jane Umbridge, High Inquisitor
Harry and Ron read the notice over the heads of some anxious‐looking second‐
years. 
ʹDoes this mean theyʹre going to shut down the Gobstones Club?ʹ one of them 
asked his friend. 
ʹI reckon youʹll be OK with Gobstones,ʹ Ron said darkly, making the second‐year 
jump. ʹI donʹt think weʹre going to be as lucky, though, do you?ʹ he asked Harry 
as the second‐years hurried away. 
Harry was reading the notice through again. The happiness that had filled him 
since Saturday was gone. His insides were pulsing with rage. 
This isnʹt a coincidence,ʹ he said, his hands forming fists. ʹShe knows.ʹ 
ʹShe canʹt,ʹ said Ron at once. 
There were people listening in that pub. And letʹs face it, we donʹt know how 
many of the people who turned up we can trust… any of them could have run 
off and told Umbridge…ʹ 
And he had thought they believed him, thought they even admired him… 
ʹZacharias Smith!ʹ said Ron at once, punching a fist into his hand. ʹOr ‐ I thought 
that Michael Corner had a really shifty look, too ‐ʹ 

ʹI wonder if Hermioneʹs seen this yet?ʹ Harry said, looking round at the door to 
the girlsʹ dormitories. 
ʹLetʹs go and tell her,ʹ said Ron. He bounded forwards, pulled open the door and 
set off up the spiral staircase. 
He was on the sixth stair when there was a loud, wailing, klaxon‐like sound and 
the steps melted together to make a long, smooth stone slide like a helter‐skelter. 
There was a brief moment when Ron tried to keep running, arms working madly 
like windmills, then he toppled over backwards and shot down the newly 
created slide, coming to rest on his back at Harryʹs feet. 
ʹEr ‐ 1 donʹt think weʹre allowed in the girlsʹ dormitories,ʹ said Harry, pulling Ron 
to his feet and trying not to laugh. 
Two fourth‐year girls came zooming gleefully down the stone slide. 
ʹOooh, who tried to get upstairs?ʹ they giggled happily, leaping to their feet and 
ogling Harry and Ron. 
ʹMe,ʹ said Ron, who was still rather dishevelled. ʹI didnʹt realise that would 
happen. Itʹs not fair!ʹ he added to Harry, as the girls headed off for the portrait 
hole, still giggling madly. ʹHermioneʹs allowed in our dormitory, how come 
weʹre not allowed ‐?ʹ 
ʹWell, itʹs an old‐fashioned rule,ʹ said Hermione, who had just slid neatly on to a 
rug in front of them and was now getting to her feet, ʹbut it says in Hogwarts: A 
History, that the founders thought boys were less trustworthy than girls. 
Anyway, why were you trying to get in there?ʹ 
ʹTo see you ‐ look at this!ʹ said Ron, dragging her over to the noticeboard. 
Hermioneʹs eyes slid rapidly down the notice. Her expression became stony. 
ʹSomeone must have blabbed to her!ʹ Ron said angrily. 
They canʹt have done,ʹ said Hermione in a low voice. 
ʹYouʹre so naive,ʹ said Ron, ʹyou think just because youʹre all honourable and 
trustworthy ‐ʹ 

ʹNo, they canʹt have done, because I put a jinx on that piece of parchment we all 
signed,ʹ said Hermione grimly. ʹBelieve me, if anyoneʹs run off and told 
Umbridge, weʹll know exactly who they are and they will really regret it.ʹ 
ʹWhatʹll happen to them?ʹ said Ron eagerly. 
ʹWell, put it this wayʹ said Hermione, ʹitʹll make Eloise Midgeonʹs acne look like a 
couple of cute freckles. Come on, letʹs get down to breakfast and see what the 
others think… I wonder whether this has been put up in all the houses?ʹ 
It was immediately apparent on entering the Great Hall that Umbridgeʹs sign 
had not only appeared in Gryffindor Tower. There was a peculiar intensity about 
the chatter and an extra measure of movement in the Hall as people scurried up 
and down their tables conferring on what they had read. Harry, Ron and 
Hermione had barely taken their seats when Neville, Dean, Fred, George and 
Ginny descended upon them. 
ʹDid you see it?ʹ 
ʹDʹyou reckon she knows?ʹ 
ʹWhat are we going to do?ʹ 
They were all looking at Harry. He glanced around to make sure there were no 
teachers near them. 
ʹWeʹre going to do it anyway of course,ʹ he said quietly. 
ʹKnew youʹd say that,ʹ said George, beaming and thumping Harry on the arm. 
The prefects as well?ʹ said Fred, looking quizzically at Ron and Hermione. 
ʹOf course,ʹ said Hermione coolly. 
ʹHere come Ernie and Hannah Abbott,ʹ said Ron, looking over his shoulder. ʹAnd 
those Ravenclaw blokes and Smith… and no one looks very spotty.ʹ 
Hermione looked alarmed. 

ʹNever mind spots, the idiots canʹt come over here now, itʹll look really 
suspicious ‐ sit down!ʹ she mouthed to Ernie and Hannah, gesturing frantically to 
them to rejoin the Hufflepuff table. ʹLater! Weʹll ‐ talk ‐ to ‐ you ‐ later!ʹ 
Til tell Michael,ʹ said Ginny impatiently, swinging herself off her bench, ʹthe fool, 
honestly…ʹ 
She hurried off towards the Ravenclaw table; Harry watched her go. Cho was 
sitting not far away, talking to the curly‐haired friend she had brought along to 
the Hogʹs Head. Would Umbridgeʹs notice scare her off meeting them again? 
But the full repercussions of the sign were not felt until they were leaving the 
Great Hall for History of Magic. 
ʹHarry! Ron/ʹ 
It was Angelina and she was hurrying towards them looking perfectly desperate. 
ʹItʹs OK,ʹ said Harry quietly, when she was near enough to hear him. ʹWeʹre still 
going to ‐ʹ 
ʹYou realise sheʹs including Quidditch in this?ʹ Angelina said over him. ʹWe have 
to go and ask permission to re‐form the Gryffindor team!ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹNo way,ʹ said Ron, appalled. 
ʹYou read the sign, it mentions teams too! So listen, Harry… I am saying this for 
the last time… please, please donʹt lose your temper with Umbridge again or she 
might not let us play any more!ʹ 
ʹOK, OK,ʹ said Harry, for Angelina looked as though she was on the verge of 
tears. ʹDonʹt worry, Iʹll behave myself…ʹ 
ʹBet Umbridge is in History of Magic,ʹ said Ron grimly, as they set off for Binnsʹs 
lesson. ʹShe hasnʹt inspected Binns yet… bet you anything sheʹs there…ʹ 
But he was wrong; the only teacher present when they entered was Professor 
Binns, floating an inch or so above his chair as usual and preparing to continue 
his monotonous drone on giant wars. Harry did not even attempt to follow what 

he was saying today; he doodled idly on his parchment ignoring Hermiones 
frequent glares and nudges, until a particularly painful poke in the ribs made 
him look up angrily. 
ʹWhat?ʹ
She pointed at the window. Harry looked round. Hedwig was perched on the 
narrow window ledge, gazing through the thick glass at him, a letter tied to her 
leg. Harry could not understand it; they had just had breakfast, why on earth 
hadnʹt she delivered the letter then, as usual? Many of his classmates were 
pointing out Hedwig to each other, too. 
ʹOh, Iʹve always loved that owl, sheʹs so beautiful,ʹ Harry heard Lavender sigh to 
Parvati. 
He glanced round at Professor Binns who continued to read his notes, serenely 
unaware that the classʹs attention was even less focused upon him than usual. 
Harry slipped quietly off his chair, crouched down and hurried along the row to 
the window, where he slid the catch and opened it very slowly. 
He had expected Hedwig to hold out her leg so that he could remove the letter 
and then fly off to the Owlery but the moment the window was open wide 
enough she hopped inside, hooting dolefully. He closed the window with an 
anxious glance at Professor Binns, crouched low again and sped back to his seat 
with Hedwig on his shoulder. He regained his seat, transferred Hedwig to his 
lap and made to remove the letter tied to her leg. 
Only then did he realise that Hedwigʹs feathers were oddly ruffled; some were 
bent the wrong way, and she was holding one of her wings at an odd angle. 
ʹSheʹs hurt!ʹ Harry whispered, bending his head low over her. Hermione and Ron 
leaned in closer; Hermione even put down her quill. ʹLook ‐ thereʹs something 
wrong with her wing ‐ʹ 
Hedwig was quivering; when Harry made to touch the wing she gave a little 
jump, all her feathers on end as though she was inflating herself, and gazed at 
him reproachfully. 
ʹProfessor Binns,ʹ said Harry loudly, and everyone in the class turned to look at 
him. ʹIʹm not feeling well.ʹ 

Professor Binns raised his eyes from his notes, looking amazed, as always, to find 
the room in front of him full of people. 
ʹNot feeling well?ʹ he repeated hazily. 
ʹNot at all well,ʹ said Harry firmly getting to his feet with Hedwig concealed 
behind his back. ʹ1 think I need to go to the hospital wing.ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Professor Binns, clearly very much wrong‐footed. ʹYes… yes, hospital 
wing… well, off you go, then, Perkins…ʹ 
Once outside the room, Harry returned Hedwig to his shoulder and hurried off 
up the corridor, pausing to think only when he was out of sight of Binnsʹs door. 
His first choice of somebody to cure Hedwig would have been Hagrid, of course, 
but as he had no idea where Hagrid was his only remaining option was to find 
Professor Grubbly‐Plank and hope she would help. 
He peered out of a window at the blustery, overcast grounds. There was no sign 
of her anywhere near Hagridʹs cabin; if she was not teaching, she was probably 
in the staff room. He set off downstairs, Hedwig hooting feebly as she swayed on 
his shoulder. 
Two stone gargoyles flanked the staff‐room door. As Harry approached, one of 
them croaked, ʹYou should be in class, Sonny Jim.ʹ 
This is urgent,ʹ said Harry curtly. 
ʹOoooh, urgent, is it?ʹ said the other gargoyle in a high‐pitched voice. ʹWell, thatʹs 
put us in our place, hasnʹt it?ʹ 
Harry knocked. He heard footsteps, then the door opened and he found himself 
face to face with Professor McGonagall. 
ʹYou havenʹt been given another detention!ʹ she said at once, her square 
spectacles flashing alarmingly. 
ʹNo, Professor!ʹ said Harry hastily. 
ʹWell then, why are you out of class?ʹ 
ʹItʹs urgent, apparently,ʹ said the second gargoyle snidery. 

ʹIʹm looking for Professor Grubbly‐Plank,ʹ Harry explained. ʹItʹs my owl, sheʹs 
injured.ʹ 
ʹInjured owl, did you say?ʹ 
Professor Grubbly‐Plank appeared at Professor McGonagallʹs shoulder, smoking 
a pipe and holding a copy of the Daily Prophet. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry, lifting Hedwig carefully off his shoulder, ʹshe turned up after 
the other post owls and her wingʹs all funny, look ‐ʹ 
Professor Grubbly‐Plank stuck her pipe firmly between her teeth and took 
Hedwig from Harry while Professor McGonagall watched. 
ʹHmm,ʹ said Professor Grubbly‐Plank, her pipe waggling slightly as she talked. 
ʹLooks like somethingʹs attacked her. Canʹt think what would have done it, 
though. Thestrals will sometimes go for birds, of course, but Hagridʹs got the 
Hogwarts Thestrals well‐trained not to touch owls.ʹ 
Harry neither knew nor cared what Thestrals were; he just wanted to know that 
Hedwig was going to be all right. Professor McGonagall, however, looked 
sharply at Harry and said, ʹDo you know how far this owlʹs travelled, Potter?ʹ 
ʹEr,ʹ said Harry. ʹFrom London, I think.ʹ 
He met her eyes briefly and knew, by the way her eyebrows had joined in the 
middle, that she understood ʹLondonʹ to mean ʹnumber twelve, Grimmauld 
Placeʹ. 
Professor Grubbly‐Plank pulled a monocle out of the inside of her robes and 
screwed it into her eye, to examine Hedwigʹs wing closely. ʹI should be able to 
sort this out if you leave her with me, Potter,ʹ she said, ʹshe shouldnʹt be flying 
long distances for a few days, in any case.ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ right ‐ thanks,ʹ said Harry, just as the bell rang for break. 
ʹNo problem,ʹ said Professor Grubbly‐Plank gruffly, turning back into the staff 
room. 
ʹJust a moment, Wilhelmina!ʹ said Professor McGonagall. ʹPotters letter!ʹ 

ʹOh yeah!ʹ said Harry, who had momentarily forgotten the scroll tied to 
Hedwigʹs leg. Professor Grubbly‐Plank handed it over and then disappeared into 
the staff room carrying Hedwig, who was staring at Harry as though unable to 
believe he would give her away like this. Feeling slightly guilty, he turned to go, 
but Professor McGonagall called him back. 
ʹPotter!ʹ 
ʹYes, Professor?ʹ 
She glanced up and down the corridor; there were students coming from both 
directions. 
ʹBear in mind,ʹ she said quickly and quietly, her eyes on the scroll in his hand, 
ʹthat channels of communication in and out of Hogwarts may be being watched, 
wonʹt you?ʹ 
ʹI ‐ʹ said Harry, but the flood of students rolling along the corridor was almost 
upon him. Professor McGonagall gave him a curt nod and retreated into the staff 
room, leaving Harry to be swept out into the courtyard with the crowd. He 
spotted Ron and Hermione already standing in a sheltered corner, their cloak 
collars turned up against the wind. Harry slit open the scroll as he hurried 
towards them and found five words in Siriusʹs handwriting: 
Today, same time, same place.
ʹIs Hedwig OK?ʹ asked Hermione anxiously, the moment he was within earshot. 
ʹWhere did you take her?ʹ asked Ron. 
To Grubbly‐Plank,ʹ said Harry. ʹAnd I met McGonagall… listen…ʺ 
And he told them what Professor McGonagall had said. To his surprise, neither 
of the others looked shocked. On the contrary, they exchanged significant looks. 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry, looking from Ron to Hermione and back again. 
Well, 1 was just saying to Ron… what if someone had tried to intercept Hedwig? 
I mean, sheʹs never been hurt on a flight before, has she?ʹ 
ʹWhoʹs the letter from, anyway?ʹ asked Ron, taking the note from Harry. 

ʹSnuffles,ʹ said Harry quietly. 
ʹʺSame time, same place?ʺ Does he mean the fire in the common room?ʹ 
ʹObviously,ʹ said Hermione, also reading the note. She looked uneasy. ʹI just hope 
nobody else has read this…ʹ 
ʹBut it was still sealed and everything,ʹ said Harry, trying to convince himself as 
much as her. ʹAnd nobody would understand what it meant if they didnʹt know 
where weʹd spoken to him before, would they?ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know,ʹ said Hermione anxiously, hitching her bag back over her shoulder 
as the bell rang again, ʹit wouldnʹt be exactly difficult to re‐seal the scroll by 
magic… and if anyoneʹs watching the Floo Network… but I donʹt really see how 
we can warn him not to come without that being intercepted, too!ʹ 
They trudged down the stone steps to the dungeons for Potions, all three of them 
lost in thought, but as they reached the bottom of the steps they were recalled to 
themselves by the voice of Draco Malfoy who was standing just outside Snapeʹs 
classroom door, waving around an official‐looking piece of parchment and 
talking much louder than was necessary so that they could hear every word. 
ʹYeah, Umbridge gave the Slytherin Quidditch team permission to continue 
playing straightaway, I went to ask her first thing this morning. Well, it was 
pretty much automatic, 1 mean, she knows my father really well, heʹs always 
popping in and out of the Ministry… itʹll be interesting to see whether 
Gryffindor are allowed to keep playing, wonʹt it?ʹ 
ʹDonʹt rise,ʹ Hermione whispered imploringly to Harry and Ron, who were both 
watching Malfoy, faces set and fists clenched. ʹItʹs what he wants.ʹ 
ʹI mean,ʹ said Malfoy, raising his voice a little more, his grey eyes glittering 
malevolently in Harry and Ronʹs direction, ʹif itʹs a question of influence with the 
Ministry, I donʹt think theyʹve got much chance… from what my father says, 
theyʹve been looking for an excuse to sack Arthur Weasley for years… and as for 
Potter… my father says itʹs a matter of time before the Ministry has him carted 
off to St Mungoʹs… apparently theyʹve got a special ward for people whose 
brains have been addled by magic.ʹ 

Malfoy made a grotesque face, his mouth sagging open and his eyes rolling. 
Crabbe and Goyle gave their usual grunts of laughter; Pansy Parkinson shrieked 
with glee. 
Something collided hard with Harryʹs shoulder, knocking him sideways. A split 
second later he realised that Neville had just charged past him, heading straight 
for Malfoy. 
ʹNeville, no!ʹ 
Harry leapt forward and seized the back of Nevilleʹs robes; Neville struggled 
frantically, his fists flailing, trying desperately to get at Malfoy who looked, for a 
moment, extremely shocked. 
ʹHelp me!ʹ Harry flung at Ron, managing to get an arm around Nevilleʹs neck 
and dragging him backwards, away from the Slytherins. Crabbe and Goyle were 
flexing their arms as they stepped in front of Malfoy, ready for the fight. Ron 
seized Nevilleʹs arms, and together he and Harry succeeded in dragging Neville 
back into the Gryffindor line. Nevilleʹs face was scarlet; the pressure Harry was 
exerting on his throat rendered him quite incomprehensible, but odd words 
spluttered from his mouth. 
ʹNot… funny… donʹt… Mungoʹs… show… him…ʹ 
The dungeon door opened. Snape appeared there. His black eyes swept up the 
Gryffindor line to the point where Harry and Ron were wrestling with Neville. 
ʹFighting, Potter, Weasley, Longbottom?ʹ Snape said in his cold, sneering voice. 
Ten points from Gryffindor. Release Longbottom, Potter, or it will be detention. 
Inside, all of you.ʹ 
Harry let go of Neville, who stood panting and glaring at him. 
ʹI had to stop you,ʹ Harry gasped, picking up his bag. ʹCrabbe and Goyle 
wouldʹve torn you apart.ʹ 
Neville said nothing; he merely snatched up his own bag and stalked off into the 
dungeon. 
ʹWhat in the name of Merlin,ʹ said Ron slowly, as they followed Neville, ʹwas that 
about?ʹ 

Harry did not answer. He knew exactly why the subject of people who were in St 
Mungoʹs because of magical damage to their brains was highly distressing to 
Neville, but he had sworn to Dumbledore that he would not tell anyone Nevilleʹs 
secret. Even Neville did not know Harry knew. 
Harry, Ron and Hermione took their usual seats at the back of the class, pulled 
out parchment, quills and their copies of One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi. 
The class around them was whispering about what Neville had just done, but 
when Snape closed the dungeon door with an echoing bang, everybody 
immediately fell silent. 
ʹYou will notice,ʹ said Snape, in his low, sneering voice, ʹthat we have a guest 
with us today.ʹ 
He gestured towards the dim corner of the dungeon and Harry saw Professor 
Umbridge sitting there, clipboard on her knee. He glanced sideways at Ron and 
Hermione, his eyebrows raised. Snape and Umbridge, the two teachers he hated 
most. It was hard to decide which one he wanted to triumph over the other. 
ʹWe are continuing with our Strengthening Solution today. You 
i
will find your mixtures as you left them last lesson; if correctly made they should 
have matured well over the weekend ‐ instructions ‐ʹ he waved his wand again ʹ‐ 
on the board. Carry on.ʹ 
Professor Umbridge spent the first half hour of the lesson making notes in her 
corner. Harry was very interested in hearing her question Snape; so interested, 
that he was becoming careless with his potion again. 
ʹSalamander blood, Harry !ʹ Hermione moaned, grabbing his wrist to prevent 
him adding the wrong ingredient for the third time, ʹnot pomegranate juice!ʹ 
ʹRight,ʹ said Harry vaguely, putting down the bottle and continuing to watch the 
corner. Umbridge had just got to her feet. ʹHa,ʹ he said softly, as she strode 
between two lines of desks towards Snape, who was bending over Dean 
Thomasʹs cauldron. 
ʹWell, the class seem fairly advanced for their level,ʹ she said briskly to Snapeʹs 
back. Though I would question whether it is advisable to teach them a potion 

like the Strengthening Solution. I think the Ministry would prefer it if that was 
removed from the syllabus.ʹ 
Snape straightened up slowly and turned to look at her. 
ʹNow… how long have you been teaching at Hogwarts?ʹ she asked, her quill 
poised over her clipboard. 
ʹFourteen years,ʹ Snape replied. His expression was unfathomable. Harry, 
watching him closely, added a few drops to his potion; it hissed menacingly and 
turned from turquoise to orange. 
ʹYou applied first for the Defence Against the Dark Arts post, I believe?ʹ 
Professor Umbridge asked Snape. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Snape quietly. 
ʹBut you were unsuccessful?ʹ 
Snapeʹs lip curled. 
ʹObviouslyʹ 
Professor Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard. 
ʹAnd you have applied regularly for the Defence Against the Dark Arts post 
since you first joined the school, I believe?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Snape quietly, barely moving his lips. He looked very angry. 
ʹDo you have any idea why Dumbledore has consistently refused to appoint 
you?ʹ asked Umbridge. 
ʹI suggest you ask him,ʹ said Snape jerkily. .? 
ʹOh, I shall,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, with a sweet smile. 
ʹI suppose this is relevant?ʹ Snape asked, his black eyes narrowed. 
ʹOh yes,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, ʹyes, the Ministry wants a thorough 
understanding of teachersʹ ‐ er ‐ backgrounds.ʹ 

She turned away, walked over to Pansy Parkinson and began questioning her 
about the lessons. Snape looked round at Harry and their eyes met for a second. 
Harry hastily dropped his gaze to his potion, which was now congealing foully 
and giving off a strong smell of burned rubber. 
ʹNo marks again, then, Potter,ʹ said Snape maliciously, emptying Harryʹs 
cauldron with a wave of his wand. ʹYou will write me an essay on the correct 
composition of this potion, indicating how and why you went wrong, to be 
handed in next lesson, do you understand?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry furiously. Snape had already given them homework and he had 
Quidditch practice this evening; this would mean another couple of sleepless 
nights. It did not seem possible that he had awoken that morning feeling very 
happy. All he felt now was a fervent desire for this day to end. 
ʹMaybe Iʹll skive off Divination,ʹ he said glumly, as they stood in the courtyard 
after lunch, the wind whipping at the hems of robes and brims of hats. Til 
pretend to be ill and do Snapeʹs essay instead, then I wonʹt have to stay up half 
the night.ʹ 
ʹYou canʹt skive off Divination,ʹ said Hermione severely. 
ʹHark whoʹs talking, you walked out of Divination, you hate Trelawney!ʹ said 
Ron indignantly. 
ʹI donʹt hate her,ʹ said Hermione loftily. ʹI just think sheʹs an absolutely appalling 
teacher and a real old fraud. But Harrys already missed History of Magic and I 
donʹt think he ought to miss anything else today!ʹ 
There was too much truth in this to ignore, so half an hour later Harry took his 
seat in the hot, overperfumed atmosphere of the Divination classroom, feeling 
angry at everybody. Professor Trelawney was yet again handing out copies of 
The Dream Oracle. Harry thought heʹd surely be much better employed doing 
Snapeʹs punishment essay than sitting here trying to find meaning in a lot of 
made‐up dreams. 
It seemed, however, that he was not the only person in Divination who was in a 
temper. Professor Trelawney slammed a copy of the Oracle down on the table 
between Harry and Ron and swept away, her lips pursed; she threw the next 
copy of the Oracle at Seamus and Dean, narrowly avoiding Seamusʹs head, and 

thrust the final one into Nevilleʹs chest with such force that he slipped off his 
pouffe. 
ʹWell, carry on!ʹ said Professor Trelawney loudly, her voice high‐pitched and 
somewhat hysterical, ʹyou know what to do! Or am I such a sub‐standard teacher 
that you have never learned how to open a book?ʹ 
The class stared perplexedly at her, then at each other. Harry, however, thought 
he knew what was the matter. As Professor Trelawney flounced back to the high‐
backed teacherʹs chair, her magnified eyes full of angry tears, he leaned his head 
closer to Ronʹs and muttered, ʹI think sheʹs got the results of her inspection back.ʹ 
ʹProfessor?ʹ said Parvati Patil in a hushed voice (she and Lavender had always 
rather admired Professor Trelawney). ʹProfessor, is there anything ‐ er ‐ wrong?ʹ 
ʹWrong!ʹ cried Professor Trelawney in a voice throbbing with emotion. ʹCertainly 
not! I have been insulted, certainly… insinuations have been made against me… 
unfounded accusations levelled… but no, there is nothing wrong, certainly not!ʹ 
She took a great shuddering breath and looked away from Parvati, angry tears 
spilling from under her glasses. 
ʹI say nothing,ʹ she choked, ʹof sixteen years of devoted service… it has passed, 
apparently, unnoticed… but I shall not be insulted, no, I shall not!ʹ 
ʹBut, Professor, whoʹs insulting you?ʹ asked Parvati timidly. 
The Establishment!ʹ said Professor Trelawney, in a deep, dramatic, wavering 
voice. ʹYes, those with eyes too clouded by the mundane to See as I See, to Know 
as I Know… of course, we Seers have always been feared, always persecuted… it 
is ‐ alas ‐our fate.ʹ 
She gulped, dabbed at her wet cheeks with the end of her shawl, then she pulled 
a small embroidered handkerchief from her sleeve, and blew her nose very hard 
with a sound like Peeves blowing a raspberry. 
Ron sniggered. Lavender shot him a disgusted look. 
ʹProfessor,ʹ said Parvati, ʹdo you mean… is it something Professor Umbridge ‐?ʹ 

ʹDo not speak to me about that woman!ʹ cried Professor Trelawney, leaping to 
her feet, her beads rattling and her spectacles flashing. ʹKindly continue with 
your work!ʹ 
And she spent the rest of the lesson striding among them, tears still leaking from 
behind her glasses, muttering what sounded like threats under her breath. 
ʹ… may well choose to leave… the indignity of it… on probation… we shall see… 
how she dares…ʹ 
ʹYou and Umbridge have got something in common,ʹ Harry told Hermione 
quietly when they met again in Defence Against the Dark Arts. ʹShe obviously 
reckons Trelawneyʹs an old fraud, too… looks like sheʹs put her on probation.ʹ 
Umbridge entered the room as he spoke, wearing her black velvet bow and an 
expression of great smugness. 
ʹGood afternoon, class.ʹ 
ʹGood afternoon, Professor Umbridge,ʹ they chanted dully. 
ʹWands away, please.ʹ 
But there was no answering flurry of movement this time; nobody had bothered 
to take out their wands. 
ʹPlease turn to page thirty‐four of Defensive Magical Theory and read the third 
chapter, entitled ʺThe Case for Non‐Offensive Responses to Magical Attackʺ. 
There will be ‐ʹ 
ʹ‐ no need to talk,ʹ Harry, Ron and Hermione said together, under their breaths. 
* 
ʹNo Quidditch practice,ʹ said Angelina in hollow tones when Harry, Ron and 
Hermione entered the common room after dinner that night. 
ʹBut I kept my temper!ʹ said Harry, horrified. ʹI didnʹt say anything to her, 
Angelina, I swear, I ‐ʹ 

ʹI know, I know,ʹ said Angelina miserably. ʹShe just said she needed a bit of time 
to consider.ʹ 
ʹConsider what?ʹ said Ron angrily. ʹSheʹs given the Slytherins permission, why 
not us?ʹ 
But Harry could imagine how much Umbridge was enjoying holding the threat 
of no Gryffindor Quidditch team over their heads and could easily understand 
why she would not want to relinquish that weapon over them too soon. 
ʹWell,ʹ said Hermione, ʹlook on the bright side ‐ at least now youʹll have time to 
do Snapeʹs essay!ʹ 
Thatʹs a bright side, is it?ʹ snapped Harry, while Ron stared incredulously at 
Hermione. ʹNo Quidditch practice, and extra Potions?ʹ 
Harry slumped down into a chair, dragged his Potions essay reluctantly from his 
bag and set to work. It was very hard to concentrate; even though he knew Sirius 
was not due in the fire until much later, he could not help glancing into the 
flames every few minutes just in case. There was also an incredible amount of 
noise in the room: Fred and George appeared finally to have perfected one type 
of Skiving Snackbox, which they were taking turns to demonstrate to a cheering 
and whooping crowd. 
First, Fred would take a bite out of the orange end of a chew, at which he would 
vomit spectacularly into a bucket they had placed in front of them. Then he 
would force down the purple end of the chew, at which the vomiting would 
immediately cease. Lee Jordan, who was assisting the demonstration, was lazily 
Vanishing the vomit at regular intervals with the same Vanishing Spell Snape 
kept using on Harrys potions. 
What with the regular sounds of retching, cheering and the sound of Fred and 
George taking advance orders from the crowd, Harry was finding it 
exceptionally difficult to focus on the correct method for Strengthening Solution. 
Hermione was not helping matters; the cheers and the sound of vomit hitting the 
bottom of Fred and Georgeʹs bucket were punctuated by her loud and 
disapproving sniffs, which Harry found, if anything, more distracting. 
ʹJust go and stop them, then!ʹ he said irritably, after crossing out the wrong 
weight of powdered griffin claw for the fourth time. 

ʹI canʹt, theyʹre not technically doing anything wrong,ʹ said Hermione through 
gritted teeth. Theyʹre quite within their rights to eat the foul things themselves 
and I canʹt find a rule that says the other idiots arenʹt entitled to buy them, not 
unless theyʹre proven to be dangerous in some way and it doesnʹt look as though 
they are.ʹ 
She, Harry and Ron watched George projectile‐vomit into the bucket, gulp down 
the rest of the chew and straighten up, beaming with his arms wide to protracted 
applause. 
ʹYou know, I donʹt get why Fred and George only got three OWLs each,ʹ said 
Harry, watching as Fred, George and Lee collected gold from the eager crowd. 
They really know their stuff.ʹ 
ʹOh, they only know flashy stuff thatʹs of no real use to anyone,ʹ said Hermione 
disparagingly. 
ʹNo real use?ʹ said Ron in a strained voice. ʹHermione, theyʹve made about 
twenty‐six Galleons already.ʹ 
It was a long while before the crowd around the Weasley twins dispersed, then 
Fred, Lee and George sat up counting their takings even longer, so it was well 
past midnight when Harry, Ron and Hermione finally had the common room to 
themselves. At long last, Fred had closed the doorway to the boysʹ dormitories 
behind him, rattling his box of Galleons ostentatiously so that Hermione 
scowled. Harry, who was making very little progress with his Potions essay, 
decided to give it up for the night. As he put his books away, Ron, who was 
dozing lightly in an armchair, gave a muffled grunt, awoke, and looked blearily 
into the fire. 
ʹSirius!ʹ he said. 
Harry whipped round. Siriuss untidy dark head was sitting in the fire again. 
ʹHi,ʹ he said, grinning. 
ʹHi,ʹ chorused Harry, Ron and Hermione, all three kneeling down on the 
hearthrug. Crookshanks purred loudly and approached the fire, trying, despite 
the heat, to put his face close to Siriusʹs. 
ʹHowʹre things?ʹ said Sirius. 

ʹNot that good,ʹ said Harry, as Hermione pulled Crookshanks back to stop him 
singeing his whiskers. The Ministryʹs forced through another decree, which 
means weʹre not allowed to have Quidditch teams ‐ʹ 
I 
ʹOr secret Defence Against the Dark Arts groups?ʹ said Sirius. 
There was a short pause. 
ʹHow did you know about that?ʹ Harry demanded. 
ʹYou want to choose your meeting places more carefully,ʹ said Sirius, grinning 
still more broadly. The Hogʹs Head, I ask you.ʹ 
ʹWell, it was better than the Three Broomsticks!ʹ said Hermione defensively. 
Thatʹs always packed with people ‐ʹ 
ʹWhich means youʹd have been harder to overhear,ʹ said Sirius. ʹYouʹve got a lot 
to learn, Hermione.ʹ 
ʹWho overheard us?ʹ Harry demanded. 
ʹMundungus, of course,ʹ said Sirius, and when they all looked puzzled he 
laughed. ʹHe was the witch under the veil.ʹ 
That was Mundungus?ʹ Harry said, stunned. ʹWhat was he doing in the Hogʹs 
Head?ʹ 
What do you think he was doing?ʹ said Sirius impatiently. ʹKeeping an eye on 
you, of course.ʹ 
ʹIʹm still being followed?ʹ asked Harry angrily. 
ʹYeah, you are,ʹ said Sirius, ʹand just as well, isnʹt it, if the first thing youʹre going 
to do on your weekend off is organise an illegal defence group.ʹ 
But he looked neither angry nor worried. On the contrary, he was looking at 
Harry with distinct pride. 
ʹWhy was Dung hiding from us?ʹ asked Ron, sounding disappointed. ʹWeʹdʹve 
liked toʹve seen him.ʹ 

ʹHe was banned from the Hogʹs Head twenty years ago,ʹ said Sirius, ʹand that 
barmanʹs got a long memory. We lost Moodyʹs spare Invisibility Cloak when 
Sturgis was arrested, so Dungʹs been dressing as a witch a lot lately… anyway… 
first of all, Ron ‐ Iʹve sworn to pass on a message from your mother.ʹ 
ʹOh yeah?ʹ said Ron, sounding apprehensive. 
ʹShe says on no account whatsoever are you to take part in an illegal secret 
Defence Against the Dark Arts group. She says youʹll be expelled for sure and 
your future will be ruined. She says there will be plenty of time to learn how to 
defend yourself later and that you are too young to be worrying about that right 
now. She alsoʹ (Siriusʹs eyes turned to the other two) ʹadvises Harry and 
Hermione not to proceed with the group, though she accepts that she has no 
authority over either of them and simply begs them to remember that she has 
their best interests at heart. She would have written all this to you, but if the owl 
had been intercepted youʹd all have been in real trouble, and she canʹt say it for 
herself because sheʹs on duty tonight.ʹ 
ʹOn duty doing what?ʹ said Ron quickly. 
ʹNever you mind, just stuff for the Order,ʹ said Sirius. ʹSo itʹs fallen to me to be 
the messenger and make sure you tell her I passed it all on, because I donʹt think 
she trusts me to.ʹ 
There was another pause in which Crookshanks, mewing, attempted to paw 
Siriusʹs head, and Ron fiddled with a hole in the hearthrug. 
ʹSo, you want me to say Iʹm not going to take part in the Defence group?ʹ he 
muttered finally. 
ʹMe? Certainly not!ʹ said Sirius, looking surprised. ʹI think itʹs an excellent idea!ʹ 
ʹYou do?ʹ said Harry, his heart lifting. 
ʹOf course I do!ʹ said Sirius. ʹDʹyou think your father and I wouldʹve lain down 
and taken orders from an old hag like Umbridge?ʹ 
ʹBut ‐ last term all you did was tell me to be careful and not take risks ‐ʹ 
ʹLast year, all the evidence was that someone inside Hogwarts was trying to kill 
you, Harry!ʹ said Sirius impatiently. This year, we know thereʹs someone outside 

Hogwarts whoʹd like to kill us all, so I think learning to defend yourselves 
properly is a very good idea!ʹ 
ʹAnd if we do get expelled?ʹ Hermione asked, a quizzical look on her face. 
ʹHermione, this whole thing was your idea!ʹ said Harry, staring at her. 
ʹI know it was. I just wondered what Sirius thought,ʹ she said, shrugging. 
ʹWell, better expelled and able to defend yourselves than sitting safely in school 
without a clue,ʹ said Sirius. 
ʹHear, hear,ʹ said Harry and Ron enthusiastically. 
ʹSo,ʹ said Sirius, ʹhow are you organising this group? Where are you meeting?ʹ 
ʹWell, thatʹs a bit of a problem now,ʹ said Harry. ʹDunno where weʹre going to be 
able to go.ʹ 
ʹHow about the Shrieking Shack?ʹ suggested Sirius. 
ʹHey, thatʹs an idea!ʹ said Ron excitedly, but Hermione made a sceptical noise 
and all three of them looked at her, Siriuss head turning in the flames. 
ʹWell, Sirius, itʹs just that there were only four of you meeting in the Shrieking 
Shack when you were at school,ʹ said Hermione, ʹand all of you could transform 
into animals and I suppose you could all have squeezed under a single 
Invisibility Cloak if youʹd wanted to. But there are twenty‐eight of us and none 
of us is an Animagus, so we wouldnʹt need so much an Invisibility Cloak as an 
Invisibility Marquee ‐ʹ 
ʹFair point,ʹ said Sirius, looking slightly crestfallen. ʹWell, Iʹm sure youʹll come up 
with somewhere. There used to be a pretty roomy secret passageway behind that 
big mirror on the fourth floor, you might have enough space to practise jinxes in 
there.ʹ 
ʹFred and George told me itʹs blocked,ʹ said Harry, shaking his head. ʹCaved in or 
something.ʹ 
ʹOh…ʹ said Sirius, frowning. ʹWell, Iʹll have a think and get back to ‐ʹ 

He broke off. His face was suddenly tense, alarmed. He turned sideways, 
apparently looking into the solid brick wall of the fireplace. 
ʹSirius?ʹ said Harry anxiously. 
But he had vanished. Harry gaped at the flames for a moment, then turned to 
look at Ron and Hermione. 
Why did he ‐?ʹ 
Hermione gave a horrified gasp and leapt to her feet, still staring at the fire. 
A hand had appeared amongst the flames, groping as though to catch hold of 
something; a stubby, short‐fingered hand covered in ugly old‐fashioned rings. 
The three of them ran for it. At the door of the boysʹ dormitory Harry looked 
back. Umbridgeʹs hand was still making snatching movements amongst the 
flames, as though she knew exactly where Siriuss hair had been moments before 
and was determined to seize it. 
— CHAPTER EIGHTEEN — 
Dumbledoreʹs Army
ʹUmbridge has been reading your mail, Harry. Thereʹs no other explanation.ʹ 
ʹYou think Umbridge attacked Hedwig?ʹ he said, outraged. 
ʹIʹm almost certain of it,ʹ said Hermione grimly. ʹWatch your frog, itʹs escaping.ʹ 
Harry pointed his wand at the bullfrog that had been hopping hopefully towards 
the other side of the table ‐ ʹAccio!ʹ ‐ and it zoomed gloomily back into his hand. 
Charms was always one of the best lessons in which to enjoy a private chat; there 
was generally so much movement and activity that the danger of being 
overheard was very slight. Today, with the room full of croaking bullfrogs and 
cawing ravens, and with a heavy downpour of rain clattering and pounding 
against the classroom windows, Harry, Ron and Hermioneʹs whispered 
discussion about how Umbridge had nearly caught Sirius went quite unnoticed. 

ʹIʹve been suspecting this ever since Filch accused you of ordering Dungbombs, 
because it seemed such a stupid lie,ʹ Hermione whispered. ʹI mean, once your 
letter had been read it would have been quite clear you werenʹt ordering them, so 
you wouldnʹt have been in trouble at all ‐ itʹs a bit of a feeble joke, isnʹt it? But 
then 1 thought, what if somebody just wanted an excuse to read your mail? Well 
then, it would be a perfect way for Umbridge to manage it ‐ tip off Filch, let him 
do the dirty work and confiscate the letter, then either find a way of stealing it 
from him or else demand to see it ‐ 1 donʹt think Filch would object, whenʹs he 
ever stuck up for a studentʹs rights? Harry, youʹre squashing your frog.ʹ 
r 
Harry looked down; he was indeed squeezing his bullfrog so tightly its eyes 
were popping; he replaced it hastily upon the desk. 
ʹIt was a very, very close call last night,ʹ said Hermione. ʹI just wonder if 
Umbridge knows how close it was. Silencio.ʹ 
The bullfrog on which she was practising her Silencing Charm was struck dumb 
mid‐croak and glared at her reproachfully. 
ʹIf sheʹd caught Snuffles ‐ʹ 
Harry finished the sentence for her. 
ʹ‐ Heʹd probably be back in Azkaban this morning.ʹ He waved his wand without 
really concentrating; his bullfrog swelled like a green balloon and emitted a high‐
pitched whistle. 
ʹSilencio!ʹ said Hermione hastily, pointing her wand at Harryʹs frog, which 
deflated silently before them. ʹWell, he mustnʹt do it again, thatʹs all. I just donʹt 
know how weʹre going to let him know. We canʹt send him an owl.ʹ 
ʹI donʹt reckon heʹll risk it again,ʹ said Ron. ʹHeʹs not stupid, he knows she nearly 
got him. Silencio.ʹ 
The large and ugly raven in front of him let out a derisive caw. 
ʹSilencio. SILENCIO!ʹ
The raven cawed more loudly. 

ʹIts the way youʹre moving your wand,ʹ said Hermione, watching Ron critically, 
ʹyou donʹt want to wave it, itʹs more a sharp jab.ʹ 
ʹRavens are harder than frogs,ʹ said Ron through clenched teeth. 
ʹFine, letʹs swap,ʹ said Hermione, seizing Rons raven and replacing it with her 
own fat bullfrog. ʹSilencio!ʹ The raven continued to open and close its sharp beak, 
but no sound came out. 
ʹVery good, Miss Granger!ʹ said Professor Flitwickʹs squeaky little voice, making 
Harry, Ron and Hermione all jump. ʹNow, let me see you try, Mr Weasley.ʹ 
ʹWha—? Oh ‐ oh, right,ʹ said Ron, very flustered. ʹEr ‐ silendo!ʹ 
He jabbed at the bullfrog so hard he poked it in the eye: the frog gave a 
deafening croak and leapt off the desk. 
It came as no surprise to any of them that Harry and Ron were given additional 
practice of the Silencing Charm for homework. 
They were allowed to remain inside over break due to the downpour outside. 
They found seats in a noisy and overcrowded classroom on the first floor in 
which Peeves was floating dreamily up near the chandelier, occasionally blowing 
an ink pellet at the top of somebodyʹs head. They had barely sat down when 
Angelina came struggling towards them through the groups of gossiping 
students. 
ʹIʹve got permission!ʹ she said. To re‐form the Quidditch team!ʹ 
ʹExcellent!ʹ said Ron and Harry together. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Angelina, beaming. ʹI went to McGonagall and I think she might have 
appealed to Dumbledore. Anyway, Umbridge had to give in. Ha! So I want you 
down at the pitch at seven oʹclock tonight, all right, because weʹve got to make 
up time. You realise weʹre only three weeks away from our first match?ʹ 
She squeezed away from them, narrowly dodged an ink pellet from Peeves, 
which hit a nearby first‐year instead, and vanished from sight. 
Ronʹs smile slipped slightly as he looked out of the window, which was now 
opaque with hammering rain. 

ʹHope this clears up. Whatʹs up with you, Hermione?ʹ 
She, too, was gazing at the window, but not as though she really saw it. Her eyes 
were unfocused and there was a frown on her face. 
ʹJust thinking…ʹ she said, still frowning at the rain‐washed window. 
ʹAbout Siri— Snuffles?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹNo… not exactly…ʹ said Hermione slowly. ʹMore… wondering… 1 suppose 
weʹre doing the right thing… I think… arenʹt we?ʹ 
Harry and Ron looked at each other. 
ʹWell, that clears that up,ʹ said Ron. ʹIt wouldʹve been really annoying if you 
hadnʹt explained yourself properly.ʹ 
Hermione looked at him as though she had only just realised he was there. 
ʹI was just wondering,ʹ she said, her voice stronger now, ʹwhether weʹre doing the 
right thing, starting this Defence Against the Dark Arts group.ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry and Ron together. 
ʹHermione, it was your idea in the first place!ʹ said Ron indignantly. 
ʹI know,ʹ said Hermione, twisting her fingers together. ʹBut after talking to 
Snuffles…ʹ 
ʹBut heʹs all for it,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Hermione, staring at the window again. ʹYes, thatʹs what made me 
think maybe it wasnʹt a good idea after all…ʹ 
Peeves floated over them on his stomach, peashooter at the ready; automatically 
all three of them lifted their bags to cover their heads until he had passed. 
ʹLetʹs get this straight,ʹ said Harry angrily, as they put their bags back on the 
floor, ʹSirius agrees with us, so you donʹt think we should do it any more?ʹ 
Hermione looked tense and rather miserable. Now staring at her own hands, she 
said, ʹDo you honestly trust his judgement?ʹ 

ʹYes, I do!ʹ said Harry at once. ʹHeʹs always given us great advice!ʹ 
An ink pellet whizzed past them, striking Katie Bell squarely in the ear. 
Hermione watched Katie leap to her feet and start throwing things at Peeves; it 
was a few moments before Hermione spoke again and it sounded as though she 
was choosing her words very carefully. 
ʹYou donʹt think he has become… sort of… reckless… since heʹs been cooped up 
in Grimmauld Place? You donʹt think heʹs… kind of… living through us?ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean, ʺliving through usʺ?ʹ Harry retorted. 
ʹI mean… well, I think heʹd love to be forming secret Defence societies right 
under the nose of someone from the Ministry… I think heʹs really frustrated at 
how little he can do where he is… so I think heʹs keen to kind of… egg us on.ʹ 
Ron looked utterly perplexed. 
ʹSirius is right,ʹ he said, ʹyou do sound just like my mother.ʹ 
Hermione bit her lip and did not answer. The bell rang just as Peeves swooped 
down on Katie and emptied an entire ink bottle over her head. 
* 
The weather did not improve as the day wore on, so that at seven 
^oʹclock that evening, when Harry and Ron went down to the 
^uidditch pitch for practice, they were soaked through within min‐ates, their feet 
slipping and sliding on the sodden grass. The sky 
was a deep, thundery grey and it was a relief to gain the warmth and light of the 
changing rooms, even if they knew the respite was only temporary. They found 
Fred and George debating whether to use one of their own Skiving Snackboxes 
to get out of flying. 
p

ʹ… but I bet sheʹd know what weʹd done,ʹ Fred said out of the corner of his 
mouth. ʹIf only I hadnʹt offered to sell her some Puking Pastilles yesterday.ʹ 
ʹWe could try the Fever Fudge,ʹ George muttered, ʹno oneʹs seen that yet ‐ʹ 

ʹDoes it work?ʹ enquired Ron hopefully, as the hammering of rain on the roof 
intensified and wind howled around the building. 
ʹWell, yeah,ʹ said Fred, ʹyour temperatureʹll go right up.ʹ 
ʹBut you get these massive pus‐filled boils, too,ʹ said George, ʹand we havenʹt 
worked out how to get rid of them yet.ʹ 
ʹI canʹt see any boils,ʹ said Ron, staring at the twins. 
ʹNo, well, you wouldnʹt,ʹ said Fred darkly, ʹtheyʹre not in a place we generally 
display to the public.ʹ 
ʹBut they make sitting on a broom a right pain in the ‐ʹ 
ʹAll right, everyone, listen up,ʹ said Angelina loudly, emerging from the 
Captainʹs office. ʹI know itʹs not ideal weather, but thereʹs a chance weʹll be 
playing Slytherin in conditions like this so itʹs a good idea to work out how weʹre 
going to cope with them. Harry, didnʹt you do something to your glasses to stop 
the rain fogging them up when we played Hufflepuff in that storm?ʹ 
ʹHermione did it,ʹ said Harry. He pulled out his wand, tapped his glasses and 
said, ʹImpervius!ʹ 
ʹI think we all ought to try that,ʹ said Angelina. ʹIf we could just keep the rain off 
our faces it would really help visibility ‐ all together, come on ‐ Impervius! OK. 
Letʹs go.ʹ 
They all stowed their wands back in the inside pockets of their robes, shouldered 
their brooms and followed Angelina out of the changing rooms. 
They squelched through the deepening mud to the middle of the pitch; visibility 
was still very poor even with the Impervius Charm; light was fading fast and 
curtains of rain were sweeping the grounds. 
ʹAll right, on my whistle,ʹ shouted Angelina. 
Harry kicked off from the ground, spraying mud in all directions, and shot 
upwards, the wind pulling him slightly off course. 

He had no idea how he was going to see the Snitch in this weather; he was 
having enough difficulty seeing the one Bludger with which they were 
practising; a minute into the practice it almost unseated him and he had to use 
the Sloth Grip Roll to avoid it. Unfortunately, Angelina did not see this. In fact, 
she did not appear to be able to see anything; none of them had a clue what the 
others were doing. The wind was picking up; even at a distance Harry could 
hear the swishing, pounding sounds of the rain pummelling the surface of the 
lake. 
Angelina kept them at it for nearly an hour before conceding defeat. She led her 
sodden and disgruntled team back into the changing rooms, insisting that the 
practice had not been a waste of time, though without any real conviction in her 
voice. Fred and George were looking particularly annoyed; both were bandy‐
legged and winced with every movement. Harry could hear them complaining in 
low voices as he towelled his hair dry. 
ʹI think a few of mine have ruptured,ʹ said Fred in a hollow voice. 
ʹMine havenʹt,ʹ said George, through clenched teeth, ʹtheyʹre throbbing like 
mad… feel bigger if anything.ʹ 
ʹOUCH!ʹ said Harry. 
He pressed the towel to his face, his eyes screwed tight with pain. The scar on his 
forehead had seared again, more painfully than it had in weeks. 
ʹWhatʹs up?ʹ said several voices. 
Harry emerged from behind his towel; the changing room was blurred because 
he was not wearing his glasses, but he could still tell that everyoneʹs face was 
turned towards him. 
ʹNothing,ʹ he muttered, ʹI ‐ poked myself in the eye, thatʹs all.ʹ 
But he gave Ron a significant look and the two of them hung back as the rest of 
the team filed back outside, muffled in their cloaks, their hats pulled low over 
their ears. 
ʹWhat happened?ʹ said Ron, the moment Alicia had disappeared through the 
door. ʹWas it your scar?ʹ 

Harry nodded. 
ʹBut…ʹ looking scared, Ron strode across to the window and stared out into the 
rain, ʹhe ‐ he canʹt be near us now, can he?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ Harry muttered, sinking on to a bench and rubbing his forehead. ʹHeʹs 
probably miles away. It hurt because… heʹs… angry.ʹ 
Harry had not meant to say that at all, and heard the words as though a stranger 
had spoken them ‐ yet knew at once that they were true. He did not know how 
he knew it, but he did; Voldemort, wherever he was, whatever he was doing, 
was in a towering temper. 
ʹDid you see him?ʹ said Ron, looking horrified. ʹDid you… get a vision, or 
something?ʹ 
Harry sat quite still, staring at his feet, allowing his mind and his memory to 
relax in the aftermath of the pain. 
A confused tangle of shapes, a howling rush of voices… 
ʹHe wants something done, and itʹs not happening fast enough,ʹ he said. 
Again, he felt surprised to hear the words coming out of his mouth, and yet was 
quite certain they were true. 
ʹBut… how do you know?ʹ said Ron. 
Harry shook his head and covered his eyes with his hands, pressing down upon 
them with his palms. Little stars erupted in them. He felt Ron sit down on the 
bench beside him and knew Ron was staring at him. 
ʹIs this what it was about last time?ʹ said Ron in a hushed voice. ʹWhen your scar 
hurt in Umbridgeʹs office? You‐Know‐Who was angry?ʹ 
Harry shook his head. 
ʹWhat is it, then?ʹ 
Harry was thinking himself back. He had been looking into Umbridgeʹs face… 
his scar had hurt… and he had had that odd feeling in his stomach… a strange, 

leaping feeling… a happy feeling… but of course, he had not recognised it for 
what it was, as he had been feeling so miserable himself… 
ʹLast time, it was because he was pleased,ʹ he said. ʹReally pleased. He thought… 
something good was going to happen. And the night before we came back to 
Hogwarts…ʹ he thought back to the moment when his scar had hurt so badly in 
his and Ronʹs bedroom in Grimmauld Place… ʹhe was furious 
He looked round at Ron, who was gaping at him. 
ʹYou could take over from Trelawney, mate,ʹ he said in an awed voice. 
ʹIʹm not making prophecies,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹNo, you know what youʹre doing?ʹ Ron said, sounding both scared and 
impressed. ʹHarry, youʹre reading You‐Know‐Whoʹs mind!ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry, shaking his head. ʹItʹs more like… his mood, I suppose. Iʹm just 
getting flashes of what mood heʹs in. Dumbledore said something like this was 
happening last year. He said that when Voldemort was near me, or when he was 
feeling hatred, I could tell. Well, now Iʹm feeling it when heʹs pleased, too…ʺ 
There was a pause. The wind and rain lashed at the building. 
ʹYouʹve got to tell someone,ʹ said Ron. 
ʹI told Sirius last time.ʹ 
ʹWell, tell him about this time!ʹ 
ʹCanʹt, can I?ʹ said Harry grimly. ʹUmbridge is watching the owls and the fires, 
remember?ʹ 
ʹWell then, Dumbledore.ʹ 
ʹIʹve just told you, he already knows,ʹ said Harry shortly, getting to his feet, 
taking his cloak off his peg and swinging it around him. Thereʹs no point telling 
him again.ʹ 
Ron did up the fastening of his own cloak, watching Harry thoughtfully. 
ʹDumbledoreʹd want to know,ʹ he said. 

Harry shrugged. 
ʹCʹmon… weʹve still got Silencing Charms to practise.ʹ 
They hurried back through the dark grounds, sliding and stumbling up the 
muddy lawns, not talking. Harry was thinking hard. What was it that Voldemort 
wanted done that was not happening quickly enough? 
ʹ… heʹs got other plans… plans he can put into operation very quietly indeed… stuff he 
can only get by stealth… like a weapon. Something he didnʹt have last time.ʹ 
Harry had not thought about those words in weeks; he had been too absorbed in 
what was going on at Hogwarts, too busy dwelling on the ongoing battles with 
Umbridge, the injustice of all the Ministry interference… but now they came 
back to him and made him wonder… Voldemortʹs anger would make sense if he 
was no nearer to laying hands on the weapon, whatever it was. Had the Order 
thwarted him, stopped him from seizing it? Where was it kept? Who had it now? 
ʹMimbulus mimbletonia,ʹ said Ronʹs voice and Harry came back to his senses just in 
time to clamber through the portrait hole into the common room. 
It appeared that Hermione had gone to bed early, leaving Crookshanks curled in 
a nearby chair and an assortment of knobbly knitted elf hats lying on a table by 
the fire. Harry was rather grateful that she was not around, because he did not 
much want to discuss his scar hurting and have her urge him to go to 
Dumbledore, too. Ron kept throwing him anxious glances, but Harry pulled out 
his Charms books and set to work on finishing his essay, though he was only 
pretending to concentrate and by the time Ron said he was going up to bed, too, 
he had written hardly anything. 
Midnight came and went while Harry was reading and rereading a passage 
about the uses of scurvy‐grass, lovage and sneezewort and not taking in a word 
of it. 
These plantes are moste efficacious in the inflaming of the braine, and are therefore much 
used in Confusing and Befuddlement Draughts, where the wizard is desirous of 
producing hot‐headedness and recklessness…
… Hermione said Sirius was becoming reckless cooped up in Grimmauld 
Place… 

… moste efficacious in the inflaming of the braine, and are therefore much used… 
… the Daily Prophet would think his brain was inflamed if they found out that he 
knew what Voldemort was feeling… 
… therefore much used in Confusing and Befuddlement Draughts… 
… confusing was the word, all right; why did he know what Voldemort was 
feeling? What was this weird connection between them, which Dumbledore had 
never been able to explain satisfactorily? 
… where the wizard is desirous… 
… how Harry would like to sleep… 
…of producing hot‐headedness…
… it was warm and comfortable in his armchair before the fire, with the rain still 
beating heavily on the windowpanes, Crookshanks purring, and the crackling of 
the flames… 
The book slipped from Harryʹs slack grip and landed with a dull thud on the 
hearthrug. His head lolled sideways… 
He was walking once more along a windowless corridor, his footsteps echoing in 
the silence. As the door at the end of the passage loomed larger, his heart beat 
fast with excitement… if he could only open it… enter beyond… 
He stretched out his hand… his fingertips were inches from it… 
ʹHarry Potter, sir!ʹ 
He awoke with a start. The candles had all been extinguished in the common 
room, but there was something moving close by. 
ʹWhozair?ʹ said Harry, sitting upright in his chair. The fire was almost out, the 
room very dark. 
ʹDobby has your owl, sir!ʹ said a squeaky voice. 
ʹDobby?ʹ said Harry thickly, peering through the gloom towards the source of 
the voice. 

Dobby the house‐elf was standing beside the table on which Hermione had left 
half a dozen of her knitted hats. His large, pointed ears were now sticking out 
from beneath what looked like all the hats Hermione had ever knitted; he was 
wearing one on top of the other, so that his head seemed elongated by two or 
three feet, and on the very topmost bobble sat Hedwig, hooting serenely and 
obviously cured. 
ʹDobby volunteered to return Harry Potterʹs owl,ʹ said the elf squeakily, with a 
look of positive adoration on his face, ʹProfessor Grubbly‐Plank says she is all 
well now, sir.ʹ He sank into a deep bow so that his pencil‐like nose brushed the 
threadbare surface of the hearthrug and Hedwig gave an indignant hoot and 
fluttered on to the arm of Harryʹs chair. 
Thanks, Dobby!ʹ said Harry, stroking Hedwigʹs head and blinking hard, trying to 
rid himself of the image of the door in his dream… it had been very vivid. 
Surveying Dobby more closely, he noticed that the elf was also wearing several 
scarves and innumerable socks, so that his feet looked far too big for his body. 
ʹEr… have you been taking all the clothes Hermioneʹs been leaving out?ʹ 
ʹOh, no, sir,ʹ said Dobby happily. ʹDobby has been taking some for Winky, too, 
sir.ʹ 
ʹYeah, how is Winky?ʹ asked Harry. 
Dobbyʹs ears drooped slightly. 
ʹWinky is still drinking lots, sir,ʹ he said sadly, his enormous round green eyes, 
large as tennis balls, downcast. ʹShe still does not care for clothes, Harry Potter. 
Nor do the other house‐elves. None of them will clean Gryffindor Tower any 
more, not with the hats and socks hidden everywhere, they finds them insulting, 
sir. Dobby does it all himself, sir, but Dobby does not mind, sir, for he always 
hopes to meet Harry Potter and tonight, sir, he has got his wish!ʹ Dobby sank into 
a deep bow again. ʹBut Harry Potter does not seem happy,ʹ Dobby went on, 
straightening up again and looking timidly at Harry. ʹDobby heard him 
muttering in his sleep. Was Harry Potter having bad dreams?ʹ 
ʹNot really bad,ʹ said Harry, yawning and rubbing his eyes. ʹIʹve had worse.ʹ 

The elf surveyed Harry out of his vast, orb‐like eyes. Then he said very seriously, 
his ears drooping, ʹDobby wishes he could help Harry Potter, for Harry Potter set 
Dobby free and Dobby is much, much happier now.ʹ 
Harry smiled. 
ʹYou canʹt help me, Dobby, but thanks for the offer.ʹ 
He bent and picked up his Potions book. Heʹd have to try to finish the essay 
tomorrow. He closed the book and as he did so the firelight illuminated the thin 
white scars on the back of his hand ‐ the result of his detentions with 
Umbridge… 
ʹWait a moment ‐ there is something you can do for me, Dobby,ʹ said Harry 
slowly. 
The elf looked round, beaming. 
ʹName it, Harry Potter, sir!ʹ 
ʹI need to find a place where twenty‐eight people can practise Defence Against 
the Dark Arts without being discovered by any of the teachers. Especially,ʹ Harry 
clenched his hand on the book, so that the scars shone pearly white, ʹProfessor 
Umbridge.ʹ 
He expected the elfʹs smile to vanish, his ears to droop; he expected him to say it 
was impossible, or else that he would try to find somewhere, but his hopes were 
not high. What he had not expected was for Dobby to give a little skip, his ears 
waggling cheerfully, and clap his hands together. 
ʹDobby knows the perfect place, sir!ʹ he said happily. ʹDobby heard tell of it from 
the other house‐elves when he came to Hogwarts, sir. It is known by us as the 
Come and Go Room, sir, or else as the Room of Requirement!ʹ 
ʹWhy?ʹ said Harry curiously. 
ʹBecause it is a room that a person can only enter,ʹ said Dobby seriously, ʹwhen 
they have real need of it. Sometimes it is there, and sometimes it is not, but when 
it appears, it is always equipped for the seekerʹs needs. Dobby has used it, sir,ʹ 
said the elf, dropping his voice and looking guilty, ʹwhen Winky has been very 
drunk; he has hidden her in the Room of Requirement and he has found 

antidotes to Butterbeer there, and a nice elf‐sized bed to settle her on while she 
sleeps it off, sir… and Dobby knows Mr Filch has found extra cleaning materials 
there when he has run short, sir, and ‐ʹ 
ʹAnd if you really needed a bathroom,ʹ said Harry, suddenly remembering 
something Dumbledore had said at the Yule Ball the previous Christmas, ʹwould 
it fill itself with chamber pots?ʹ 
ʹDobby expects so, sir,ʹ said Dobby, nodding earnestly. ʹIt is a most amazing 
room, sir.ʹ 
ʹHow many people know about it?ʹ said Harry, sitting up straighter in his chair. 
ʹVery few, sir. Mostly people stumbles across it when they needs it, sir, but often 
they never finds it again, for they do not know that it is always there waiting to 
be called into service, sir.ʹ 
ʹIt sounds brilliant,ʹ said Harry, his heart racing. ʹIt sounds perfect, Dobby. When 
can you show me where it is?ʹ 
ʹAny time, Harry Potter, sir,ʹ said Dobby, looking delighted at Harrys 
enthusiasm. ʹWe could go now, if you like!ʹ 
For a moment Harry was tempted to go with Dobby. He was halfway out of his 
seat, intending to hurry upstairs for his Invisibility Cloak when, not for the first 
time, a voice very much like Hermioneʹs whispered in his ear: reckless. It was, 
after all, very late, he was exhausted, and had Snapeʹs essay to finish. 
ʹNot tonight, Dobby,ʹ said Harry reluctantly, sinking back into his chair. This is 
really important… I donʹt want to blow it, itʹll need proper planning. Listen, can 
you just tell me exactly where this Room of Requirement is, and how to get in 
there?ʹ 
* 
Their robes billowed and swirled around them as they splashed across the 
flooded vegetable patch to double Herbology, where they could hardly hear 
what Professor Sprout was saying over the hammering of raindrops hard as 
hailstones on the greenhouse roof. The afternoons Care of Magical Creatures 
lesson was to be relocated from the storm‐swept grounds to a free classroom on 

the ground floor and, to their intense relief, Angelina had sought out her team at 
lunch to tell them that Quidditch practice was cancelled. 
ʹGood,ʹ said Harry quietly, when she told him, ʹbecause weʹve found somewhere 
to have our first Defence meeting. Tonight, eight oʹclock, seventh floor opposite 
that tapestry of Barnabas the Barmy being clubbed by those trolls. Can you tell 
Katie and Alicia?ʹ 
She looked slightly taken aback but promised to tell the others. Harry returned 
hungrily to his sausages and mash. When he looked up to take a drink of 
pumpkin juice, he found Hermione watching him. 
ʹWhat?ʹ he said thickly. 
ʹWell… itʹs just that Dobbyʹs plans arenʹt always that safe. Donʹt you remember 
when he lost you all the bones in your arm?ʹ 
This room isnʹt just some mad idea of Dobbyʹs; Dumbledore knows about it, too, 
he mentioned it to me at the Yule Ball.ʹ 
Hermioneʹs expression cleared. V
ʹDumbledore told you about it?ʹ 
ʹJust in passing,ʹ said Harry, shrugging. 
ʹOh, well, thatʹs all right then,ʹ said Hermione briskly and raised no more 
objections. 
Together with Ron they had spent most of the day seeking out those people who 
had signed their names to the list in the Hogʹs Head and telling them where to 
meet that evening. Somewhat to Harryʹs disappointment, it was Ginny who 
managed to find Cho Chang and her friend first; however, by the end of dinner 
he was confident that the news had been passed to every one of the twenty‐five 
people who had turned up in the Hogʹs Head. 
At half past seven Harry, Ron and Hermione left the Gryffindor common room, 
Harry clutching a certain piece of aged parchment in his hand. Fifth‐years were 
allowed to be out in the corridors until nine oʹclock, but all three of them kept 
looking around nervously as they made their way along the seventh floor. 

ʹHold it,ʹ Harry warned, unfolding the piece of parchment at the top of the last 
staircase, tapping it with his wand and muttering, ʹI solemnly swear that I am up to 
no good.ʹ 
A map of Hogwarts appeared on the blank surface of the parchment. Tiny black 
moving dots, labelled with names, showed where various people were. 
ʹFilch is on the second floor,ʹ said Harry, holding the map close to his eyes, ʹand 
Mrs Norris is on the fourth.ʹ 
ʹAnd Umbridge?ʹ said Hermione anxiously. 
ʹIn her office,ʹ said Harry, pointing. ʹOK, lets go.ʹ 
They hurried along the corridor to the place Dobby had described to Harry, a 
stretch of blank wall opposite an enormous tapestry depicting Barnabas the 
Barmyʹs foolish attempt to train trolls for the ballet. 
ʹOK,ʹ said Harry quietly, while a moth‐eaten troll paused in his relentless 
clubbing of the would‐be ballet teacher to watch them. ʹDobby said to walk past 
this bit of wall three times, concentrating hard on what we need.ʹ 
They did so, turning sharply at the window just beyond the blank stretch of wall, 
then at the man‐sized vase on its other side. Ron had screwed up his eyes in 
concentration; Hermione was whispering something under her breath; Harryʹs 
fists were clenched as he stared ahead of him. 
We need somewhere to learn to fight … he thought. Just give us a place to practise… 
somewhere they canʹt find us… 
ʹHarry!ʹ said Hermione sharply, as they wheeled around after their third walk 
past. 
A highly polished door had appeared in the wall. Ron was staring at it, looking 
slightly wary. Harry reached out, seized the brass handle, pulled open the door 
and led the way into a spacious room lit with flickering torches like those that 
illuminated the dungeons eight floors below. 
The walls were lined with wooden bookcases and instead of chairs there were 
large silk cushions on the floor. A set of shelves at the far end of the room carried 
a range of instruments such as Sneakoscopes, Secrecy Sensors and a large, 

cracked Foe‐Glass that Harry was sure had hung, the previous year, in the fake 
Moodys office. 
These will be good when weʹre practising Stunning,ʹ said Ron enthusiastically, 
prodding one of the cushions with his foot. 
ʹAnd just look at these books!ʹ said Hermione excitedly, running a finger along 
the spines of the large leather‐bound tomes. ʹA Compendium of Common Curses and 
their Counter‐Actions… The Dark Arts Outsmarted… Self‐Defensive Spellwork… 
wow…ʺ She looked around at Harry, her face glowing, and he saw that the 
presence of hundreds of books had finally convinced Hermione that what they 
were doing was right. ʹHarry, this is wonderful, thereʹs everything we need here!ʹ 
And without further ado she slid Jinxes for the Jinxed from its shelf, sank on to the 
nearest cushion and began to read. 
There was a gentle knock on the door. Harry looked round. Gmny, Neville, 
Lavender, Parvati and Dean had arrived. 
ʹWhoa,ʹ said Dean, staring around, impressed. ʹWhat is this place?ʹ 
Harry began to explain, but before he had finished more people had arrived and 
he had to start all over again. By the time eight oʹclock arrived, every cushion 
was occupied. Harry moved across to the door and turned the key protruding 
from the lock; it clicked in a satisfyingly loud way and everybody fell silent, 
looking at him. Hermione carefully marked her page of Jinxes for the Jinxed and 
set the book aside. 
ʹWell,ʹ said Harry, slightly nervously. This is the place weʹve found for practice 
sessions, and youʹve ‐ er ‐ obviously found it OK.ʹ 
ʹItʹs fantastic!ʹ said Cho, and several people murmured their agreement. 
ʹItʹs bizarre,ʹ said Fred, frowning around at it. ʹWe once hid from Filch in here, 
remember, George? But it was just a broom cupboard then.ʹ 
ʹHey, Harry, whatʹs this stuff?ʹ asked Dean from the rear of the room, indicating 
the Sneakoscopes and the Foe‐Glass. 

ʹDark detectors,ʹ said Harry, stepping between the cushions to reach them. 
ʹBasically they all show when Dark wizards or enemies are around, but you donʹt 
want to rely on them too much, they can be fooled…ʹ 
He gazed for a moment into the cracked Foe‐Glass; shadowy figures were 
moving around inside it, though none was recognisable. He turned his back on 
it. 
ʹWell, Iʹve been thinking about the sort of stuff we ought to do first and ‐ er ‐ʹ He 
noticed a raised hand. ʹWhat, Hermione?ʹ 
ʹI think we ought to elect a leader,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹHarryʹs leader,ʹ said Cho at once, looking at Hermione as though she were mad. 
Harrys stomach did yet another back‐flip. 
ʹYes, but I think we ought to vote on it properly,ʹ said Hermione, unperturbed. ʹIt 
makes it formal and it gives him authority. So ‐everyone who thinks Harry ought 
to be our leader?ʹ 
Everybody put up their hand, even Zacharias Smith, though he did it very half‐
heartedly. 
ʹEr ‐ right, thanks,ʹ said Harry, who could feel his face burning. ʹAnd ‐ what, 
Hermione?ʹ 
ʹI also think we ought to have a name,ʹ she said brightly, her hand still in the air. 
ʹIt would promote a feeling of team spirit and unity, donʹt you think?ʹ 
ʹCan we be the Anti‐Umbridge League?ʹ said Angelina hopefully. 
ʹOr the Ministry of Magic are Morons Group?ʹ suggested Fred. 
ʹI was thinking,ʹ said Hermione, frowning at Fred, ʹmore of a name that didnʹt tell 
everyone what we were up to, so we can refer to it safely outside meetings.ʹ 
The Defence Association?ʹ said Cho. The DA for short, so nobody knows what 
weʹre talking about?ʹ 

ʹYeah, the DAʹs good,ʹ said Ginny. ʹOnly letʹs make it stand for Dumbledores 
Army, because thatʹs the Ministryʹs worst fear, isnʹt it?ʹ 
There was a good deal of appreciative murmuring and laughter at this. 
ʹAll in favour of the DA?ʹ said Hermione bossily, kneeling up on her cushion to 
count. Thatʹs a majority ‐ motion passed!ʹ 
She pinned the piece of parchment with all of their signatures on it on to the wall 
and wrote across the top in large letters: 
ʹRight,ʹ said Harry, when she had sat down again, ʹshall we get practising then? I 
was thinking, the first thing we should do is Expelliarmus, you know, the 
Disarming Charm. I know itʹs pretty basic but Iʹve found it really useful ‐ʹ 
ʹOh, please,ʹ said Zacharias Smith, rolling his eyes and folding his arms. ʹI donʹt 
think Expelliarmus is exactly going to help us against You‐Know‐Who, do you?ʹ 
ʹIʹve used it against him,ʹ said Harry quietly. ʹIt saved my life in June.ʹ 
Smith opened his mouth stupidly. The rest of the room was very quiet. 
ʹBut if you think itʹs beneath you, you can leave,ʹ Harry said. 
Smith did not move. Nor did anybody else. 
ʹOK,ʹ said Harry, his mouth slightly drier than usual with all these eyes upon 
him, ʹI reckon we should all divide into pairs and practise.ʹ 
It felt very odd to be issuing instructions, but not nearly as odd as seeing them 
followed. Everybody got to their feet at once and divided up. Predictably, 
Neville was left partnerless. 
ʹYou can practise with me,ʹ Harry told him. ʹRight ‐ on the count of three, then ‐ 
one, two, three ‐ʹ 
The room was suddenly full of shouts of Expelliarmus. Wands flew in all 
directions; missed spells hit books on shelves and sent them flying into the air. 
Harry was too quick for Neville, whose wand went spinning out of his hand, hit 
the ceiling in a shower of sparks and landed with a clatter on top of a bookshelf, 
from which Harry retrieved it with a Summoning Charm. Glancing around, he 

thought he had been right to suggest they practise the basics first; there was a lot 
of shoddy spellwork going on; many people were not succeeding in Disarming 
their opponents at all, but merely causing them to jump backwards a few paces 
or wince as their feeble spell whooshed over them. 
ʹExpelliarmus!ʹ said Neville, and Harry, caught unawares, ielt his wand fly out of 
his hand. 
ʹI DID IT!ʹ said Neville gleefully. ʹIʹve never done it before ‐ I DID IT!ʹ 
ʹGood one!ʹ said Harry encouragingly, deciding not to point out that in a real 
duel Nevilles opponent was unlikely to be staring in the opposite direction with 
his wand held loosely at his side. ʹListen, Neville, can you take it in turns to 
practise with Ron and Hermione for a couple of minutes so I can walk around 
and see how the rest are doing?ʹ 
Harry moved off into the middle of the room. Something very odd was 
happening to Zacharias Smith. Every time he opened his mouth to disarm 
Anthony Goldstein, his own wand would fly out of his hand, yet Anthony did 
not seem to be making a sound. Harry did not have to look far to solve the 
mystery: Fred and George were several feet from Smith and taking it in turns to 
point their wands at his back. 
ʹSorry, Harryʹ said George hastily, when Harry caught his eye. ʹCouldnʹt resist.ʹ 
Harry walked around the other pairs, trying to correct those who were doing the 
spell wrong. Ginny was teamed with Michael Corner; she was doing very well, 
whereas Michael was either very bad or unwilling to jinx her. Ernie Macmillan 
was flourishing his wand unnecessarily, giving his partner time to get in under 
his guard; the Creevey brothers were enthusiastic but erratic and mainly 
responsible for all the books leaping off the shelves around them; Luna 
Lovegood was similarly patchy, occasionally sending Justin Finch‐Fletchleyʹs 
wand spinning out of his hand, at other times merely causing his hair to stand on 
end. 
ʹOK, stop!ʹ Harry shouted. ʹStop! STOP!ʹ 
I need a whistle, he thought, and immediately spotted one lying on top of the 
nearest row of books. He caught it up and blew hard. Everyone lowered their 
wands. 

That wasnʹt bad,ʹ said Harry, ʹbut thereʹs definite room for improvement.ʹ 
Zacharias Smith glared at him. ʹLetʹs try again.ʹ 
He moved off around the room again, stopping here and there to make 
suggestions. Slowly, the general performance improved. 
He avoided going near Cho and her friend for a while, but after walking twice 
around every other pair in the room felt he could not ignore them any longer. 
ʹOh no,ʹ said Cho rather wildly as he approached. ʹExpelliarmious! I mean, 
Expellimelliusʹtʹt 1 ‐ oh, sorry, Marietta!ʹ 
Her curly‐haired friendʹs sleeve had caught fire; Marietta extinguished it with 
her own wand and glared at Harry as though it was his fault. 
ʹYou made me nervous, I was doing all right before then!ʹ Cho told Harry 
ruefully. 
That was quite good,ʹ Harry lied, but when she raised her eyebrows he said, 
ʹWell, no, it was lousy, but I know you can do it properly, I was watching from 
over there.ʹ 
She laughed. Her friend Marietta looked at them rather sourly and turned away. 
ʹDonʹt mind her,ʹ Cho muttered. ʹShe doesnʹt really want to be here but I made 
her come with me. Her parents have forbidden her to do anything that might 
upset Umbridge. You see ‐ her mum works for the Ministry.ʹ 
ʹWhat about your parents?ʹ asked Harry. 
ʹWell, theyʹve forbidden me to get on the wrong side of Umbridge, too,ʹ said Cho, 
drawing herself up proudly. ʹBut if they think Iʹm not going to fight You‐Know‐
Who after what happened to Cedric ‐ʹ 
She broke off, looking rather confused, and an awkward silence fell between 
them; Terry Bootʹs wand went whizzing past Harryʹs ear and hit Alicia Spinnet 
hard on the nose. 
ʹWell, my dad is very supportive of any anti‐Ministry action!ʹ said Luna 
Lovegood proudly from just behind Harry; evidently she had been 
eavesdropping on his conversation while Justin Finch‐Fletchley attempted to 

disentangle himself from the robes that had flown up over his head. ʹHeʹs always 
saying heʹd believe anything of Fudge; 1 mean, the number of goblins Fudge has 
had assassinated! And of course he uses the Department of Mysteries to develop 
terrible poisons, which he secretly feeds to anybody who disagrees with him. 
And then thereʹs his Umgubular Slashkilter —ʹ 
ʹDonʹt ask,ʹ Harry muttered to Cho as she opened her mouth, looking puzzled. 
She giggled. 
ʹHey, Harry,ʹ Hermione called from the other end of the room, ʹhave you checked 
the time?ʹ 
He looked down at his watch and was shocked to see it was already ten past 
nine, which meant they needed to get back to their common rooms immediately 
or risk being caught and punished by Filch for being out of bounds. He blew his 
whistle; everybody stopped shouting ʹExpelliannusʹ and the last couple of wands 
clattered to the floor. 
ʹWell, that was pretty good,ʹ said Harry, ʹbut weʹve overrun, weʹd better leave it 
here. Same time, same place next week?ʹ 
ʹSooner!ʹ said Dean Thomas eagerly and many people nodded in agreement. 
Angelina, however, said quickly The Quidditch seasonʹs about to start, we need 
team practices too!ʹ 
ʹLetʹs say next Wednesday night, then,ʹ said Harry, ʹwe can decide on additional 
meetings then. Come on, weʹd better get going.ʹ 
He pulled out the Marauderʹs Map again and checked it carefully for signs of 
teachers on the seventh floor. He let them all leave in threes and fours, watching 
their tiny dots anxiously to see that they returned safely to their dormitories: the 
Hufflepuffs to the basement corridor that also led to the kitchens; the 
Ravenclaws to a tower on the west side of the castle, and the Gryffindors along 
the corridor to the Fat Ladyʹs portrait. 
ʹThat was really, really good, Harryʹ said Hermione, when finally it was just her, 
Harry and Ron who were left. 

ʹYeah, it was!ʹ said Ron enthusiastically, as they slipped out of the door and 
watched it melt back into stone behind them. ʹDid you see me disarm Hermione, 
Harry?ʹ 
ʹOnly once,ʹ said Hermione, stung. ʹI got you loads more than you got me ‐ʹ 
ʹI did not only get you once, I got you at least three times ‐ʹ 
ʹWell, if youʹre counting the one where you tripped over your own feet and 
knocked the wand out of my hand ‐ʹ 
They argued all the way back to the common room, but Harry was not listening 
to them. He had one eye on the Marauderʹs Map, but he was also thinking of Cho 
saying he made her nervous. 
— CHAPTER NINETEEN — 
The Lion and the Serpent
Harry felt as though he were carrying some kind of talisman inside his chest over 
the following two weeks, a glowing secret that supported him through 
Umbridgeʹs classes and even made it possible for him to smile blandly as he 
looked into her horrible bulging eyes. He and the DA were resisting her under 
her very nose, doing the very thing she and the Ministry most feared, and 
whenever he was supposed to be reading Wilbert Slinkhardʹs book during her 
lessons he dwelled instead on satisfying memories of their most recent meetings, 
remembering how Neville had successfully disarmed Hermione, how Colin 
Creevey had mastered the Impediment Jinx after three meetingsʹ hard effort, 
how Parvati Patil had produced such a good Reductor Curse that she had 
reduced the table carrying all the Sneakoscopes to dust. 
He was finding it almost impossible to fix a regular night of the week for the DA 
meetings, as they had to accommodate three separate teamʹs Quidditch practices, 
which were often rearranged due to bad weather conditions; but Harry was not 
sorry about this; he had a feeling that it was probably better to keep the timing of 
their meetings unpredictable. If anyone was watching them, it would be hard to 
make out a pattern. 
Hermione soon devised a very clever method of communicating the time and 
date of the next meeting to all the members in case they needed to change it at 
short notice, because it would look suspicious if people from different Houses 

were seen crossing the Great Hall to talk to each other too often. She gave each of 
the members of the DA a fake Galleon (Ron became very excited when he first 
saw the basket and was convinced she was actually giving out gold). 
ʹYou see the numerals around the edge of the coins?ʹ Hermione said, holding one 
up for examination at the end of their fourth meeting. The coin gleamed fat and 
yellow in the light from the torches. ʹOn real Galleons thatʹs just a serial number 
referring to the goblin who cast the coin. On these fake coins, though, the 
numbers will change to reflect the time and date of the next meeting. The coins 
will grow hot when the date changes, so if youʹre carrying them in a pocket 
youʹll be able to feel them. We take one each, and when Harry sets the date of the 
next meeting heʹll change the numbers on his coin, and because Iʹve put a 
Protean Charm on them, theyʹll all change to mimic his.ʹ 
A blank silence greeted Hermioneʹs words. She looked around at all the faces 
upturned to her, rather disconcerted. 
ʹWell ‐ I thought it was a good idea,ʹ she said uncertainly, ʹI mean, even if 
Umbridge asked us to turn out our pockets, thereʹs nothing fishy about carrying 
a Galleon, is there? But… well, if you donʹt want to use them ‐ʹ 
ʹYou can do a Protean Charm?ʹ said Terry Boot. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹBut thatʹs… thatʹs NEWT standard, that is,ʹ he said weakly. 
ʹOh,ʹ said Hermione, trying to look modest. ʹOh… well… yes, I suppose it is.ʹ 
ʹHow come youʹre not in Ravenclaw?ʹ he demanded, staring at Hermione with 
something close to wonder. ʹWith brains like yours?ʹ 
ʹWell, the Sorting Hat did seriously consider putting me in Ravenclaw during my 
Sorting,ʹ said Hermione brightly, ʹbut it decided on Gryffindor in the end. So, 
does that mean weʹre using the Galleons?ʹ 
There was a murmur of assent and everybody moved forwards to collect one 
from the basket. Harry looked sideways at Hermione. 
ʹYou know what these remind me of?ʹ 

ʹNo, whatʹs that?ʹ 
The Death Eatersʹ scars. Voldemort touches one of them, and all their scars burn, 
and they know theyʹve got to join him.ʹ 
ʹWell… yes,ʹ said Hermione quietly, ʹthat is where I got the idea • •. but youʹll 
notice I decided to engrave the date on bits of metal rather than on our membersʹ 
skin.ʹ 
ʹYeah… I prefer your way,ʹ said Harry, grinning, as he slipped his Galleon into 
his pocket. ʹ1 suppose the only danger with these is that we might accidentally 
spend them.ʹ 
ʹFat chance,ʹ said Ron, who was examining his own fake Galleon with a slightly 
mournful air, ʹI havenʹt got any real Galleons to confuse it with.ʹ 
As the first Quidditch match of the season, Gryffindor versus Slytherin, drew 
nearer, their DA meetings were put on hold because Angelina insisted on almost 
daily practices. The fact that the Quidditch Cup had not been held for so long 
added considerably to the interest and excitement surrounding the forthcoming 
game; the Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs were taking a lively interest in the 
outcome, for they, of course, would be playing both teams over the coming year; 
and the Heads of House of the competing teams, though they attempted to 
disguise it under a decent pretence of sportsmanship, were determined to see 
their own side victorious. Harry realised how much Professor McGonagall cared 
about beating Slytherin when she abstained from giving them homework in the 
week leading up to the match. 
ʹI think youʹve got enough to be getting on with at the moment,ʹ she said loftily. 
Nobody could quite believe their ears until she looked directly at Harry and Ron 
and said grimly, ʹIʹve become accustomed to seeing the Quidditch Cup in my 
study, boys, and I really donʹt want to have to hand it over to Professor Snape, so 
use the extra time to practise, wonʹt you?ʹ 
Snape was no less obviously partisan; he had booked the Quidditch pitch for 
Slytherin practice so often that the Gryffindors had difficulty getting on it to 
play. He was also turning a deaf ear to the many reports of Slytherin attempts to 
hex Gryffindor players in the corridors. When Alicia Spinnet turned up in the 
hospital wing with her eyebrows growing so thick and fast they obscured her 
vision and obstructed her mouth, Snape insisted that she must have attempted a 

Hair‐thickening Charm on herself and refused to listen to the fourteen eye‐
witnesses who insisted they had seen the Slytherin Keeper, Miles Bletchley, hit 
her from behind with a jinx while she worked in the library. 
Harry felt optimistic about Gryffindorʹs chances; they had, after all, never lost to 
Malfoyʹs team. Admittedly, Ron was still not performing to Woodʹs standard, but 
he was working extremely hard to improve. His greatest weakness was a 
tendency to lose confidence after heʹd made a blunder; if he let in one goal he 
became flustered and was therefore likely to miss more. On the other hand, 
Harry had seen Ron make some truly spectacular saves when he was on form; 
during one memorable practice he had hung one‐handed from his broom and 
kicked the Quaffle so hard away from the goalhoop that it soared the length of 
the pitch and through the centre hoop at the other end; the rest of the team felt 
this save compared favourably with one made recently by Barry Ryan, the Irish 
International Keeper, against Polandʹs top Chaser, Ladislaw Zamojski. Even Fred 
had said that Ron might yet make him and George proud, and that they were 
seriously considering admitting he was related to them, something they assured 
him they had been trying to deny for four years. 
The only thing really worrying Harry was how much Ron was allowing the 
tactics of the Slytherin team to upset him before they even got on to the pitch. 
Harry, of course, had endured their snide comments for over four years, so 
whispers of, ʹHey, Potty, I heard Warringtonʹs sworn to knock you off your 
broom on Saturdayʹ, far from chilling his blood, made him laugh. ʹWarringtonʹs 
aimʹs so pathetic Iʹd be more worried if he was aiming for the person next to me,ʹ 
he retorted, which made Ron and Hermione laugh and wiped the smirk off 
Pansy Parkinsons face. 
But Ron had never endured a relentless campaign of insults, jeers and 
intimidation. When Slytherins, some of them seventh‐years and considerably 
larger than he was, muttered as they passed in the corridors, ʹGot your bed 
booked in the hospital wing, Weasley?ʹ he didnʹt laugh, but turned a delicate 
shade of green. When Draco Malfoy imitated Ron dropping the Quaffle (which 
he did whenever they came within sight of each other), Ronʹs ears glowed red 
and his hands shook so badly that he was likely to drop whatever he was 
holding at the time, too. 
October extinguished itself in a rush of howling winds and driving rain and 
November arrived, cold as frozen iron, with hard irosts every morning and icy 
draughts that bit at exposed hands and faces. The skies and the ceiling of the 

Great Hall turned a pale, pearly grey, the mountains around Hogwarts were 
snowcapped, and the temperature in the castle dropped so low that many 
students wore their thick protective dragonskin gloves in the corridors between 
lessons. 
The morning of the match dawned bright and cold. When Harry awoke he 
looked round at Ronʹs bed and saw him sitting bolt upright, his arms around his 
knees, staring fixedly into space. 
ʹYou all right?ʹ said Harry. 
Ron nodded but did not speak. Harry was reminded forcibly of the time Ron had 
accidentally put a Slug‐vomiting Charm on himself; he looked just as pale and 
sweaty as he had done then, not to mention as reluctant to open his mouth. 
ʹYou just need some breakfast,ʹ Harry said bracingly. ʹCʹmon.ʹ 
The Great Hall was filling up fast when they arrived, the talk louder and the 
mood more exuberant than usual. As they passed the Slytherin table there was 
an upsurge of noise. Harry looked round and saw that, in addition to the usual 
green and silver scarves and hats, every one of them was wearing a silver badge 
in the shape of what seemed to be a crown. For some reason many of them 
waved at Ron, laughing uproariously. Harry tried to see what was written on the 
badges as he walked by, but he was too concerned to get Ron past their table 
quickly to linger long enough to read them. 
They received a rousing welcome at the Gryffindor table, where everyone was 
wearing red and gold, but far from raising Ronʹs spirits the cheers seemed to sap 
the last of his morale; he collapsed on to the nearest bench looking as though he 
were facing his final meal. 
ʹI mustʹve been mental to do this,ʹ he said in a croaky whisper. ʹMental.ʹ 
ʹDonʹt be thick,ʹ said Harry firmly, passing him a choice of cereals, ʹyouʹre going 
to be fine. Itʹs normal to be nervous.ʹ 
ʹIʹm rubbish,ʹ croaked Ron. ʹIʹm lousy. I canʹt play to save my life. What was I 
thinking?ʹ 
ʹGet a grip,ʹ said Harry sternly. ʹLook at that save you made with your foot the 
other day, even Fred and George said it was brilliant.ʹ 

Ron turned a tortured face to Harry. 
That was an accident,ʹ he whispered miserably. ʹI didnʹt mean to do it ‐ I slipped 
off my broom when none of you were looking and when I was trying to get back 
on I kicked the Quaffle by accident.ʹ 
ʹWell,ʹ said Harry, recovering quickly from this unpleasant surprise, ʹa few more 
accidents like that and the gameʹs in the bag, isnʹt it?ʹ 
Hermione and Ginny sat down opposite them wearing red and gold scarves, 
gloves and rosettes. 
ʹHowʹre you feeling?ʹ Ginny asked Ron, who was now staring into the dregs of 
milk at the bottom of his empty cereal bowl as though seriously considering 
attempting to drown himself in them. 
ʹHeʹs just nervous,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹWell, thatʹs a good sign, I never feel you perform as well in exams if youʹre not a 
bit nervous,ʹ said Hermione heartily. 
ʹHello,ʹ said a vague and dreamy voice from behind them. Harry looked up: 
Luna Lovegood had drifted over from the Ravenclaw table. Many people were 
staring at her and a few were openly laughing and pointing; she had managed to 
procure a hat shaped like a life‐size lionʹs head, which was perched precariously 
on her head. 
ʹIʹm supporting Gryffindor,ʹ said Luna, pointing unnecessarily at her hat. ʹLook 
what it does…ʹ 
She reached up and tapped the hat with her wand. It opened its mouth wide and 
gave an extremely realistic roar that made everyone in the vicinity jump. 
ʹItʹs good, isnʹt it?ʹ said Luna happily. ʹI wanted to have it chewing up a serpent 
to represent Slytherm, you know, but there wasnʹt time. Anyway… good luck, 
Ronald!ʹ 
She drifted away. They had not quite recovered from the shock of Lunaʹs hat 
before Angelina came hurrying towards them, accompanied by Katie and Alicia, 
whose eyebrows had mercifully been returned to normal by Madam Pomfrey. 

ʹWhen youʹre readyʹ she said, ʹweʹre going to go straight down to the pitch, check 
out conditions and change.ʹ 
ʹWeʹll be there in a bit,ʹ Harry assured her. ʹRonʹs just got to have some breakfast.ʹ 
It became clear after ten minutes, however, that Ron was not capable of eating 
anything more and Harry thought it best to get him down to the changing 
rooms. As they rose from the table, Hermione got up, too, and taking Harryʹs 
arm she drew him to one side. 
ʹDonʹt let Ron see whatʹs on those Slytherinsʹ badges,ʹ she whispered urgently. 
Harry looked questioningly at her, but she shook her head warn‐ingly; Ron had 
just ambled over to them, looking lost and desperate. 
ʹGood luck, Ron,ʹ said Hermione, standing on tiptoe and kissing him on the 
cheek. ʹAnd you, Harry ‐ʹ 
Ron seemed to come to himself slightly as they walked back across the Great 
Hall. He touched the spot on his face where Hermione had kissed him, looking 
puzzled, as though he was not quite sure what had just happened. He seemed 
too distracted to notice much around him, but Harry cast a curious glance at the 
crown‐shaped badges as they passed the Slytherin table, and this time he made 
out the words etched on to them: 
Weasley is our King
With an unpleasant feeling that this could mean nothing good, he hurried Ron 
across the Entrance Hall, down the stone steps and out into the icy air. 
The frosty grass crunched under their feet as they hurried down the sloping 
lawns towards the stadium. There was no wind at all and the sky was a uniform 
pearly white, which meant that visibility would be good without the drawback 
of direct sunlight in the eyes. Harry pointed out these encouraging factors to Ron 
as they walked, but he was not sure that Ron was listening. 
Angelina had changed already and was talking to the rest of the team when they 
entered. Harry and Ron pulled on their robes (Ron attempted to do his up back‐
to‐front for several minutes before Alicia took pity on him and went to help), 
then sat down to listen to the pre‐match talk while the babble of voices outside 

grew steadily louder as the crowd came pouring out of the castle towards the 
pitch. 
ʹOK, Iʹve only just found out the final line‐up for Slytherin,ʹ said Angelina, 
consulting a piece of parchment. ʹLast yearʹs Beaters, 
Derrick and Bole, have left, but it looks as though Montagueʹs replaced them 
with the usual gorillas, rather than anyone who can fly particularly well. Theyʹre 
two blokes called Crabbe and Goyle, I donʹt know much about them ‐ʹ 
ʹWe do,ʹ said Harry and Ron together. 
ʹWell, they donʹt look bright enough to tell one end of a broom from the other,ʹ 
said Angelina, pocketing her parchment, ʹbut then I was always surprised 
Derrick and Bole managed to find their way on to the pitch without signposts.ʹ 
ʹCrabbe and Goyle are in the same mould,ʹ Harry assured her. 
They could hear hundreds of footsteps mounting the banked benches of the 
spectatorsʹ stands. Some people were singing, though Harry could not make out 
the words. He was starting to feel nervous, but he knew his butterflies were as 
nothing compared to Ronʹs, who was clutching his stomach and staring straight 
ahead again, his jaw set and his complexion pale grey. 
ʹItʹs time,ʹ said Angelina in a hushed voice, looking at her watch. ʹCʹmon 
everyone… good luck.ʹ 
The team rose, shouldered their brooms and marched in single file out of the 
changing room and into the dazzling sunlight. A roar of sound greeted them in 
which Harry could still hear singing, though it was muffled by the cheers and 
whistles. 
The Slytherin team was standing waiting for them. They, too, were wearing 
those silver crown‐shaped badges. The new Captain, Montague, was built along 
the same lines as Dudley Dursley, with massive forearms like hairy hams. 
Behind him lurked Crabbe and Goyle, almost as large, blinking stupidly in the 
sunlight, swinging their new Beatersʹ bats. Malfoy stood to one side, the sunlight 
gleaming on his white‐blond head. He caught Harryʹs eye and smirked, tapping 
the crown‐shaped badge on his chest. 

ʹCaptains, shake hands,ʹ ordered the referee Madam Hooch, as Angelina and 
Montague reached each other. Harry could tell that Montague was trying to 
crush Angelinaʹs fingers, though she did not wince. ʹMount your brooms…ʹ 
Madam Hooch placed her whistle in her mouth and blew. 
The balls were released and the fourteen players shot upwards. Out of the corner 
of his eye Harry saw Ron streak off towards the goalhoops. Harry zoomed 
higher, dodging a Bludger, and set off on a wide lap of the pitch, gazing around 
for a glint of gold; on the other side of the stadium, Draco Malfoy was doing 
exactly the same. 
ʹAnd itʹs Johnson ‐Johnson with the Quaffle, what a player that girl is, Iʹve been 
saying it for years but she still wonʹt go out with me ‐ʹ 
ʹJORDAN!ʹ yelled Professor McGonagall. 
ʹ‐ just a fun fact, Professor, adds a bit of interest ‐ and sheʹs ducked Warrington, 
sheʹs passed Montague, sheʹs — ouch ‐ been hit from behind by a Bludger from 
Crabbe… Montague catches the Quaffle, Montague heading back up the pitch 
and ‐ nice Bludger there from George Weasley, thatʹs a Bludger to the head for 
Montague, he drops the Quaffle, caught by Katie Bell, Katie Bell of Gryffindor 
reverse‐passes to Alicia Spinnet and Spinnetʹs away ‐ʹ 
Lee Jordanʹs commentary rang through the stadium and Harry listened as hard 
as he could through the wind whistling in his ears and the din of the crowd, all 
yelling and booing and singing. 
ʹ‐ dodges Warrington, avoids a Bludger ‐ close call, Alicia ‐ and the crowd are 
loving this, just listen to them, whatʹs that theyʹre singing?ʹ 
And as Lee paused to listen, the song rose loud and clear from the sea of green 
and silver in the Slytherin section of the stands: 
ʹWeasley cannot save a thing, He cannot block a single ring, Thatʹs why Slytherins all 
sing: Weasley is our King.
ʹWeasley was born in a bin He always lets the Quaffle in Weasley will make sure we win 
Weasley is our King.ʹ

ʹ— and Alicia passes back to Angelina!ʹ Lee shouted, and as Harry swerved, his 
insides boiling at what he had just heard, he knew Lee was trying to drown out 
the words of the song. ʹCome on now, 
Angelina — looks like sheʹs got just the Keeper to beat! ‐ SHE SHOOTS ‐ SHE ‐ 
aaaah…ʹ 
Bletchley, the Slytherin Keeper, had saved the goal; he threw the Quaffle to 
Warrington who sped off with it, zig‐zagging in between Alicia and Katie; the 
singing from below grew louder and louder as he drew nearer and nearer Ron. 
ʹWeasley is our King, Weasley is our King, He always lets the Quaffle in Weasley is our 
King.ʹ
Harry could not help himself: abandoning his search for the Snitch, he wheeled 
around to watch Ron, a lone figure at the far end of the pitch, hovering before the 
three goalhoops while the massive Warrington pelted towards him. 
ʹ‐ and itʹs Warrington with the Quaffle, Warrington heading for goal, heʹs out of 
Bludger range with just the Keeper ahead ‐ʹ 
A great swell of song rose from the Slytherin stands below: 
ʹWeasley cannot save a thing, He cannot block a single ring…ʺ
ʹ‐ so itʹs the first test for new Gryffindor Keeper Weasley, brother of Beaters Fred 
and George, and a promising new talent on the team ‐ come on, Ron!ʹ 
But the scream of delight came from the Slytherinsʹ end: Ron had dived wildly, 
his arms wide, and the Quaffle had soared between them straight through Ronʹs 
central hoop. 
ʹSlytherin score!ʹ came Leeʹs voice amid the cheering and booing from the crowds 
below, ʹso thatʹs ten‐nil to Slytherin ‐ bad luck, Ron.ʹ 
The Slytherins sang even louder: 
ʹWEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN 
HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN…ʹ 

ʹ‐ and Gryffindor back in possession and itʹs Katie Bell tanking up the pitch ‐ʹ 
cried Lee valiantly, though the singing was now so deafening that he could 
hardly make himself heard above it. 
ʹWEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN WEASLEY IS OUR KING…ʹ
ʹHarry, WHAT ARE YOU DOING?ʹ screamed Angelina, soaring past him to keep 
up with Katie. ʹGET GOING!ʹ 
Harry realised he had been stationary in midair for over a minute, watching the 
progress of the match without sparing a thought for the whereabouts of the 
Snitch; horrified, he went into a dive and started circling the pitch again, staring 
around, trying to ignore the chorus now thundering through the stadium: 
ʹWEASLEY IS OUR K1NC, WEASLEY IS OUR KING…ʹ 
There was no sign of the Snitch anywhere he looked; Malfoy was still circling the 
stadium just as he was. They passed one another midway around the pitch, 
going in opposite directions, and Harry heard Malfoy singing loudly: 
ʹWEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN…ʹ 
ʹ— and itʹs Warrington again,ʹ bellowed Lee, ʹwho passes to Pucey, Puceyʹs off 
past Spinnet, come on now, Angelina, you can take him ‐ turns out you canʹt ‐ 
but nice Bludger from Fred Weasley, I mean, George Weasley, oh, who cares, one 
of them, anyway, and Warrington drops the Quaffle and Katie Bell — er ‐ drops 
it, too ‐ so thatʹs Montague with the Quaffle, Slytherin Captain Montague takes 
the Quaffle and heʹs off up the pitch, come on now, Gryffindor, block him!ʹ 
Harry zoomed around the end of the stadium behind the Slytherin goalhoops, 
willing himself not to look at what was going on at Ronʹs end. As he sped past 
the Slytherin Keeper, he heard Bletchley singing along with the crowd below: 
ʹWEASLEY CANNOT SAVE A TH7NG…ʺ 
ʹ‐ and Puceyʹs dodged Alicia again and heʹs heading straight for goal, stop it, 
Ron!ʹ 
Harry did not have to look to see what had happened: there was a terrible groan 
from the Gryffindor end, coupled with fresh screams and applause from the 
Slytherins. Looking down, Harry saw the pug‐faced Pansy Parkinson right at the 

front of the stands, her back to the pitch as she conducted the Slytherin 
supporters who were roaring: 
THATʹS WHY SLYTHERINS ALL SING WEASLEY IS OUR KING.ʹ 
But twenty‐nil was nothing, there was still time for Gryffindor to catch up or 
catch the Snitch. A few goals and they would be in the lead as usual, Harry 
assured himself, bobbing and weaving through the other players in pursuit of 
something shiny that turned out to be Montagueʹs watchstrap. 
But Ron let in two more goals. There was an edge of panic in Harryʹs desire to 
find the Snitch now. If he could just get it soon and finish the game quickly. 
ʹ‐ and Katie Bell of Gryffindor dodges Pucey, ducks Montague, nice swerve, 
Katie, and she throws to Johnson, Angelina Johnson takes the Quaffle, sheʹs past 
Warrington, sheʹs heading for goal, come on now, Angelina ‐ GRYFFINDOR 
SCORE! Itʹs forty‐ten, forty‐ten to Slytherin and Pucey has the Quaffle 
Harry could hear Lunaʹs ludicrous lion hat roaring amidst the Gryffindor cheers 
and felt heartened; only thirty points in it, that was nothing, they could pull back 
easily. Harry ducked a Bludger that Crabbe had sent rocketing in his direction 
and resumed his frantic scouring of the pitch for the Snitch, keeping one eye on 
Malfoy in case he showed signs of having spotted it, but Malfoy, like him, was 
continuing to soar around the stadium, searching fruitlessly… 
ʹ— Pucey throws to Warrington, Warrington to Montague, Montague back to 
Pucey ‐Johnson intervenes, Johnson takes the 
Quaffle, Johnson to Bell, this looks good ‐ I mean bad ‐ Bells hit by a Bludger 
from Goyle of Slytherin and itʹs Pucey in possession 
ʹWEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN
HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN ‐>. 
WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN 
But Harry had seen it at last: the tiny fluttering Golden Snitch was hovering feet 
from the ground at the Slytherin end of the pitch. 
He dived… 

In a matter of seconds, Malfoy was streaking out of the sky on Harryʹs left, a 
green and silver blur lying flat on his broom… 
The Snitch skirted the foot of one of the goalhoops and scooted off towards the 
other side of the stands; its change of direction suited Malfoy, who was nearer; 
Harry pulled his Firebolt around, he and Malfoy were now neck and neck… 
Feet from the ground, Harry lifted his right hand from his broom, stretching 
towards the Snitch… to his right, Malfoyʹs arm extended too, was reaching, 
groping… 
It was over in two breathless, desperate, windswept seconds ‐Harryʹs fingers 
closed around the tiny, struggling ball ‐ Malfoyʹs fingernails scrabbled the back 
of Harrys hand hopelessly ‐ Harry pulled his broom upwards, holding the 
struggling ball in his hand and the Gryffindor spectators screamed their 
approval… 
They were saved, it did not matter that Ron had let in those goals, nobody would 
remember as long as Gryffindor had won ‐ 
WHAM. 
A Bludger hit Harry squarely in the small of the back and he flew forwards off 
his broom. Luckily he was only five or six feet above the ground, having dived so 
low to catch the Snitch, but he was winded all the same as he landed flat on his 
back on the frozen pitch. He heard Madam Hoochʹs shrill whistle, an uproar in 
the stands compounded of catcalls, angry yells and jeering, a thud, then 
Angelinas frantic voice. 
ʹAre you all right?ʹ 
ʹCourse I am,ʹ said Harry grimly, taking her hand and allowing her to pull him to 
his feet. Madam Hooch was zooming towards one of the Slytherin players above 
him, though he could not see who it was from this angle. 
ʹIt was that thug Crabbe,ʹ said Angelina angrily, ʹhe whacked the Bludger at you 
the moment he saw youʹd got the Snitch ‐ but we won, Harry, we won!ʹ 
Harry heard a snort from behind him and turned around, still holding the Snitch 
tightly in his hand: Draco Malfoy had landed close by. White‐faced with fury, he 
was still managing to sneer. 

ʹSaved Weasleyʹs neck, havenʹt you?ʹ he said to Harry. ʹIʹve never seen a worse 
Keeper… but then he was born in a bin… did you like my lyrics, Potter?ʹ 
Harry didnʹt answer. He turned away to meet the rest of the team who were now 
landing one by one, yelling and punching the air in triumph; all except Ron, who 
had dismounted from his broom over by the goalposts and seemed to be making 
his way slowly back to the changing rooms alone. 
ʹWe wanted to write another couple of verses!ʹ Malfoy called, as Katie and Alicia 
hugged Harry. ʹBut we couldnʹt find rhymes for fat and ugly ‐ we wanted to sing 
about his mother, see ‐ʹ 
Talk about sour grapes,ʹ said Angelina, casting Malfoy a disgusted look. 
ʹ‐ we couldnʹt fit in useless loser either ‐ for his father, you know ‐ʹ 
Fred and George had realised what Malfoy was talking about. Halfway through 
shaking Harryʹs hand, they stiffened, looking round at Malfoy. 
ʹLeave it!ʹ said Angelina at once, taking Fred by the arm. ʹLeave it, Fred, let him 
yell, heʹs just sore he lost, the jumped‐up little ‐ʹ 
ʹ‐ but you like the Weasleys, donʹt you, Potter?ʹ said Malfoy, sneering. ʹSpend 
holidays there and everything, donʹt you? Canʹt see how you stand the stink, but 
I suppose when youʹve been dragged up by Muggles, even the Weasleysʹ hovel 
smells OK ‐ʹ 
Harry grabbed hold of George. Meanwhile, it was taking the combined efforts of 
Angelina, Alicia and Katie to stop Fred leaping on Malfoy, who was laughing 
openly. Harry looked around for 
Madam Hooch, but she was still berating Crabbe for his illegal Sludger attack. 
ʹOr perhaps,ʹ said Malfoy, leering as he backed away, ʹyou can remember what 
your motherʹs house stank like, Potter, and Weasleys pigsty reminds you of it —ʹ 
Harry was not aware of releasing George, all he knew was that a second later 
both of them were sprinting towards Malfoy. He had completely forgotten that 
all the teachers were watching: all he wanted to do was cause Malfoy as much 
pain as possible; with no time to draw out his wand, he merely drew back the fist 
clutching the Snitch and sank it as hard as he could into Malfoys stomach ‐ 

ʹHarry! HARRY! GEORGE! NO/ʹ 
He could hear girlsʹ voices screaming, Malfoy yelling, George swearing, a whistle 
blowing and the bellowing of the crowd around him, but he did not care. Not 
until somebody in the vicinity yelled ʹImpedimenta!ʹ and he was knocked over 
backwards by the force of the spell, did he abandon the attempt to punch every 
inch of Malfoy he could reach. 
ʹWhat do you think youʹre doing?ʹ screamed Madam Hooch, as Harry leapt to his 
feet. It seemed to have been her who had hit him with the Impediment Jinx; she 
was holding her whistle in one hand and a wand in the other; her broom lay 
abandoned several feet away. Malfoy was curled up on the ground, whimpering 
and moaning, his nose bloody; George was sporting a swollen lip; Fred was still 
being forcibly restrained by the three Chasers, and Crabbe was cackling in the 
background. ʹIʹve never seen behaviour like it ‐ back up to the castle, both of you, 
and straight to your Head of Houseʹs office! Go! Now.ʹʹ 
Harry and George turned on their heels and marched off the pitch, both panting, 
neither saying a word to the other. The howling and jeering of the crowd grew 
fainter and fainter until they reached the Entrance Hall, where they could hear 
nothing except the sound of their own footsteps. Harry became aware that 
something was still struggling in his right hand, the knuckles of which he had 
bruised against Malfoyʹs jaw. Looking down, he saw the Snitchʹs silver wings 
protruding from between his fingers, struggling for release. 
They had barely reached the door of Professor McGonagallʹs office when she 
came marching along the corridor behind them. She was wearing a Gryffindor 
scarf, but tore it from her throat with shaking hands as she strode towards them, 
looking livid. 
ʹIn!ʹ she said furiously, pointing to the door. Harry and George entered. She 
strode around behind her desk and faced them, quivering with rage as she threw 
the Gryffindor scarf aside on to the floor. 
ʹWell?ʹ she said. ʹI have never seen such a disgraceful exhibition. Two on one! 
Explain yourselves!ʹ 
ʹMalfoy provoked us,ʹ said Harry stiffly. 
ʹProvoked you?ʹ shouted Professor McGonagall, slamming a fist on to her desk 
so that her tartan tin slid sideways off it and burst open, littering the floor with 

Ginger Newts. ʹHeʹd just lost, hadnʹt he? Of course he wanted to provoke you! 
But what on earth he can have said that justified what you two —ʹ 
ʹHe insulted my parents,ʹ snarled George. ʹAnd Harryʹs mother.ʹ 
ʹBut instead of leaving it to Madam Hooch to sort out, you two decided to give 
an exhibition of Muggle duelling, did you?ʹ bellowed Professor McGonagall. 
ʹHave you any idea what youʹve ‐?ʹ 
ʹHem, hem.ʹ
Harry and George both wheeled round. Dolores Umbridge was standing in the 
doorway wrapped in a green tweed cloak that greatly enhanced her resemblance 
to a giant toad, and was smiling in the horrible, sickly, ominous way that Harry 
had come to associate with imminent misery. 
ʹMay I help, Professor McGonagall?ʹ asked Professor Umbridge in her most 
poisonously sweet voice. 
Blood rushed into Professor McGonagallʹs face. 
ʹHelp?ʹ she repeated, in a constricted voice. ʹWhat do you mean, help?ʹ 
Professor Umbridge moved forwards into the office, still smiling her sickly smile. 
ʹWhy, I thought you might be grateful for a little extra authorityʹ 
Harry would not have been surprised to see sparks fly from Professor 
McGonagallʹs nostrils. 
ʹYou thought wrong,ʹ she said, turning her back on Umbridge. 
ʹNow, you two had better listen closely. I do not care what provocation Malfoy 
offered you, I do not care if he insulted every family member you possess, your 
behaviour was disgusting and I am giving each of you a weekʹs worth of 
detentions! Do not look at me like that, Potter, you deserve it! And if either of 
you ever ‐ʹ 
ʹHem, hem.ʹ 

Professor McGonagall closed her eyes as though praying for patience as she 
turned her face towards Professor Umbridge again. 
ʹYes?ʹ
ʹI think they deserve rather more than detentions,ʹ said Umbridge, smiling still 
more broadly. 
Professor McGonagallʹs eyes flew open. 
ʹBut unfortunatelyʹ she said, with an attempt at a reciprocal smile that made her 
look as though she had lockjaw, ʹit is what I think that counts, as they are in my 
House, Dolores.ʹ 
ʹWell, actually, Minerva,ʹ simpered Professor Umbridge, ʹI think youʹll find that 
what I think does count. Now, where is it? Cornelius just sent it… I mean,ʹ she 
gave a false little laugh as she rummaged in her handbag, ʹthe Minister just sent 
it… ah yes…ʺ 
She had pulled out a piece of parchment which she now unfurled, clearing her 
throat fussily before starting to read what it said. 
ʹHem, hem… ʺEducational Decree Number Twenty‐fiveʺ.ʹ 
ʹNot another one!ʹ exclaimed Professor McGonagall violently. 
ʹWell, yes,ʹ said Umbridge, still smiling. ʹAs a matter of fact, Minerva, it was you 
who made me see that we needed a further amendment… you remember how 
you overrode me, when I was unwilling to allow the Gryffindor Quidditch team 
to re‐form? How you took the case to Dumbledore, who insisted that the team be 
allowed to play? Well, now, I couldnʹt have that. I contacted the Minister at once, 
and he quite agreed with me that the High Inquisitor has to have the power to 
strip pupils of privileges, or she ‐ that is to say, I ‐ would have less authority than 
common teachers! And you see now, donʹt you, Minerva, how right I was in 
attempting to stop the Gryffindor team re‐forming? Dreadful tempers… anyway, 
I was reading out our amendment… hem, hem… ʺthe High Inquisitor will 
henceforth have supreme authority over all punishments, sanctions and removal 
of privileges pertaining to the students of Hogwarts, and the power to alter such 
punishments, sanctions and removals of privileges as may have been ordered by 
other staff members. Signed, Cornelius Fudge, Minister for Magic, Order of 
Merlin First Class, etc., etc.ʺʹ 

She rolled up the parchment and put it back into her handbag, still smiling. 
ʹSo… I really think 1 will have to ban these two from playing Quidditch ever 
again,ʹ she said, looking from Harry to George and back again. 
Harry felt the Snitch fluttering madly in his hand. 
ʹBan us?ʹ he said, and his voice sounded strangely distant. ʹFrom playing… ever 
again?ʹ 
ʹYes, Mr Potter, I think a lifelong ban ought to do the trick,ʹ said Umbridge, her 
smile widening still further as she watched him struggle to comprehend what 
she had said. ʹYou and Mr Weasley here. And I think, to be safe, this young manʹs 
twin ought to be stopped, too ‐ if his teammates had not restrained him, I feel 
sure he would have attacked young Mr Malfoy as well. I will want their 
broomsticks confiscated, of course; I shall keep them safely in my office, to make 
sure there is no infringement of my ban. But I am not unreasonable, Professor 
McGonagall,ʹ she continued, turning back to Professor McGonagall who was 
now standing as still as though carved from ice, staring at her. The rest of the 
team can continue playing, I saw no signs of violence from any of them. Well… 
good afternoon to you.ʹ 
And with a look of the utmost satisfaction, Umbridge left the room, leaving a 
horrified silence in her wake. 
* 
ʹBanned,ʹ said Angelina in a hollow voice, late that evening in the common room. 
ʹBanned. No Seeker and no Beaters… what on earth are we going to do?ʹ 
It did not feel as though they had won the match at all. Everywhere Harry 
looked there were disconsolate and angry faces; the team themselves were 
slumped around the fire, all apart from Ron, who had not been seen since the 
end of the match. 
ʹItʹs just so unfair,ʹ said Alicia numbly. ʹI mean, what about 
Crabbe and that Bludger he hit after the whistle had been blown? Has she 
banned htm?ʹ 

ʹNo,ʹ said Ginny miserably; she and Hermione were sitting on either side of 
Harry. ʹHe just got lines, 1 heard Montague laughing about it at dinner.ʹ 
ʹAnd banning Fred when he didnʹt even do anything!ʹ said Alicia furiously, 
pummelling her knee with her fist. 
ʹItʹs not my fault I didnʹt,ʹ said Fred, with a very ugly look on his face, ʹ1 wouldʹve 
pounded the little scumbag to a pulp if you three hadnʹt been holding me back.ʹ 
Harry stared miserably at the dark window. Snow was falling. The Snitch he had 
caught earlier was now zooming around and around the common room; people 
were watching its progress as though hypnotised and Crookshanks was leaping 
from chair to chair, trying to catch it. 
ʹIʹm going to bed,ʹ said Angelina, getting slowly to her feet. ʹMaybe this will all 
turn out to have been a bad dream… maybe Iʹll wake up tomorrow and find we 
havenʹt played yet…ʹ 
She was soon followed by Alicia and Katie. Fred and George sloped off to bed 
some time later, glowering at everyone they passed, and Ginny went not long 
after that. Only Harry and Hermione were left beside the fire. 
ʹHave you seen Ron?ʹ Hermione asked in a low voice. 
Harry shook his head. 
ʹI think heʹs avoiding us,ʹ said Hermione. ʹWhere do you think he‐?ʹ 
But at that precise moment, there was a creaking sound behind them as the Fat 
Lady swung forwards and Ron came clambering through the portrait hole. He 
was very pale indeed and there was snow in his hair. When he saw Harry and 
Hermione, he stopped dead in his tracks. 
ʹWhere have you been?ʹ said Hermione anxiously, springing up. 
ʹWalking,ʹ Ron mumbled. He was still wearing his Quidditch things. 
ʹYou look frozen,ʹ said Hermione. ʹCome and sit down!ʹ 
Ron walked to the fireside and sank into the chair furthest from Harryʹs, not 
looking at him. The stolen Snitch zoomed over their heads. 

ʹIʹm sorry,ʹ Ron mumbled, looking at his feet. 
ʹWhat for?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹFor thinking I can play Quidditch,ʹ said Ron. ʹIʹm going to resign first thing 
tomorrow.ʹ 
ʹIf you resign,ʹ said Harry testily, ʹthereʹll only be three players left on the team.ʹ 
And when Ron looked puzzled, he said, ʹIʹve been given a lifetime ban. Soʹve 
Fred and George.ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ Ron yelped. 
Hermione told him the full story; Harry could not bear to tell it again. When she 
had finished, Ron looked more anguished than ever. 
This is all my fault ‐ʹ 
ʹYou didnʹt make me punch Malfoy,ʹ said Harry angrily. 
ʹ‐ if I wasnʹt so terrible at Quidditch ‐ʹ 
ʹ‐ itʹs got nothing to do with that.ʹ 
ʹ‐ it was that song that wound me up ‐ʹ 
ʹ‐ it wouldʹve wound anyone up.ʹ 
Hermione got up and walked to the window, away from the argument, watching 
the snow swirling down against the pane. 
ʹLook, drop it, will you!ʹ Harry burst out. ʹItʹs bad enough, without you blaming 
yourself for everything!ʹ 
Ron said nothing but sat gazing miserably at the damp hem of his robes. After a 
while he said in a dull voice, ʹThis is the worst Iʹve ever felt in my life.ʹ 
ʹJoin the club,ʹ said Harry bitterly. 
ʹWell,ʹ said Hermione, her voice trembling slightly. ʹI can think of one thing that 
might cheer you both up.ʹ 

ʹOh yeah?ʹ said Harry sceptically. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Hermione, turning away from the pitch‐black, snow‐flecked 
window, a broad smile spreading across her face. ʹHagrids back.ʹ 
CHAPTER TWENTY 
Hagridʹs Talc
Harry sprinted up to the boysʹ dormitories to fetch the Invisibility Cloak and the 
Marauderʹs Map from his trunk; he was so quick that he and Ron were ready to 
leave at least five minutes before Hermione hurried back down from the girlsʹ 
dormitories, wearing scarf, gloves and one of her own knobbly elf hats. 
ʹWell, itʹs cold out there!ʹ she said defensively, as Ron clicked his tongue 
impatiently. 
They crept through the portrait hole and covered themselves hastily in the Cloak 
‐ Ron had grown so much he now needed to crouch to prevent his feet showing ‐ 
then, moving slowly and cautiously, they proceeded down the many staircases, 
pausing at intervals to check on the map for signs of Filch or Mrs Norris. They 
were lucky; they saw nobody but Nearly Headless Nick, who was gliding along 
absent‐mindedly humming something that sounded horribly like ʹWeasley is our 
Kingʹ. They crept across the Entrance Hall and out into the silent, snowy 
grounds. With a great leap of his heart, Harry saw little golden squares of light 
ahead and smoke coiling up from Hagridʹs chimney. He set off at a quick march, 
the other two jostling and bumping along behind him. They crunched excitedly 
through the thickening snow until at last they reached the wooden front door. 
When Harry raised his fist and knocked three times, a dog started barking 
frantically inside. 
ʹHagrid, its us!ʹ Harry called through the keyhole. 
ʹShoulda known!ʹ said a gruff voice. 
They beamed at each other under the Cloak; they could tell by Hagridʹs voice 
that he was pleased. ʹBin home three seconds… out the way, Fang… out the way, 
yeh dozy dog…ʹ 
The bolt was drawn back, the door creaked open and Hagridʹs head appeared in 
the gap. 

Hermione screamed. 
ʹMerlinʹs beard, keep it down!ʹ said Hagrid hastily, staring wildly over their 
heads. ʹUnder that Cloak, are yeh? Well, get in, get in!ʹ 
ʹIʹm sorry!ʹ Hermione gasped, as the three of them squeezed past Hagrid into the 
house and pulled the Cloak off themselves so he could see them. ʹI just ‐ oh, 
Hagrid!ʹ 
ʹItʹs nuthinʹ, itʹs nuthinʹ!ʹ said Hagrid hastily, shutting the door behind them and 
hurrying to close all the curtains, but Hermione continued to gaze up at him in 
horror. 
Hagridʹs hair was matted with congealed blood and his left eye had been 
reduced to a puffy slit amid a mass of purple and black bruising. There were 
many cuts on his face and hands, some of them still bleeding, and he was 
moving gingerly, which made Harry suspect broken ribs. It was obvious that he 
had only just got home; a thick black travelling cloak lay over the back of a chair 
and a haversack large enough to carry several small children leaned against the 
wall inside the door. Hagrid himself, twice the size of a normal man, was now 
limping over to the fire and placing a copper kettle over it. 
ʹWhat happened to you?ʹ Harry demanded, while Fang danced around them all, 
trying to lick their faces. 
Told yeh, nuthinʹ,ʹ said Hagrid firmly. ʹWant a cuppa?ʹ 
ʹCome off it,ʹ said Ron, ʹyouʹre in a right state!ʹ 
ʹIʹm tellinʹ yeh, Iʹm fine,ʹ said Hagrid, straightening up and turning to beam at 
them all, but wincing. ʹBlimey, itʹs good ter see yeh three again ‐ had good 
summers, did yeh?ʹ 
ʹHagrid, youʹve been attacked!ʹ said Ron. 
ʹPer the lasʹ time, itʹs nuthinʹ!ʹ said Hagrid firmly. 
ʹWould you say it was nothing if one of us turned up with a pound of mince 
instead of a face?ʹ Ron demanded. 

ʹYou ought to go and see Madam Pomfrey, Hagrid,ʹ said Hermione anxiously, 
ʹsome of those cuts look nasty.ʹ 
ʹIʹm dealinʹ with it, all righʹ?ʹ said Hagrid repressively. 
He walked across to the enormous wooden table that stood in the middle of his 
cabin and twitched aside a tea towel that had been lying on it. Underneath was a 
raw, bloody, green‐tinged steak slightly larger than the average car tyre. 
ʹYouʹre not going to eat that, are you, Hagrid?ʹ said Ron, leaning in for a closer 
look. ʹIt looks poisonous.ʹ 
ʹItʹsʹsʹposed ter look like that, itʹs dragon meat,ʹ Hagrid said. ʹAnʹ I didnʹ get it ter 
eat.ʹ 
He picked up the steak and slapped it over the left side of his face. Greenish 
blood trickled down into his beard as he gave a soft moan of satisfaction. 
Thaʹs better. It helps with the stinginʹ, yeh know.ʹ 
ʹSo, are you going to tell us whatʹs happened to you?ʹ Harry asked. 
ʹCanʹt, Harry. Top secret. Moreʹn me jobʹs worth ter tell yeh that.ʹ 
ʹDid the giants beat you up, Hagrid?ʹ asked Hermione quietly. 
Hagridʹs fingers slipped on the dragon steak and it slid squelchily on to his chest. 
ʹGiants?ʹ said Hagrid, catching the steak before it reached his belt and slapping it 
back over his face, ʹwho said anythinʹ abouʹ giants? Who yeh bin talkmʹ to? 
Whoʹs told yeh what Iʹve ‐ whoʹs said Iʹve bin ‐ eh?ʹ 
ʹWe guessed,ʹ said Hermione apologetically. 
ʹOh, yeh did, did yeh?ʹ said Hagrid, surveying her sternly with the eye that was 
not hidden by the steak. 
ʹIt was kind of… obvious,ʹ said Ron. Harry nodded. 
Hagrid glared at them, then snorted, threw the steak back on to the table and 
strode over to the kettle, which was now whistling. 

ʹNever known kids like you three fer knowinʹ moreʹn yeh oughta,ʹ he muttered, 
splashing boiling water into three of his bucket‐shaped mugs. ʹAnʹ Iʹm not 
complimentinʹ yeh, neither. Nosy, someʹd call it. Interferinʹ.ʹ 
But his beard twitched. 
ʹSo you have been to look for giants?ʹ said Harry, grinning as he sat down at the 
table. 
Hagrid set tea in front of each of them, sat down, picked up his steak again and 
slapped it back over his face. 
ʹYeah, all righʹ,ʹ he grunted, ʹI have.ʹ 
ʹAnd you found them?ʹ said Hermione in a hushed voice. 
ʹWell, theyʹre not that difficult ter find, ter be honest,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹPretty big, 
see.ʹ 
ʹWhere are they?ʹ said Ron. 
ʹMountains,ʹ said Hagrid unhelpfully. 
ʹSo why donʹt Muggles ‐?ʹ 
They do,ʹ said Hagrid darkly. ʹOnʹy their deaths are always put down ter 
mountaineerinʹ accidents, arenʹ they?ʹ 
He adjusted the steak a little so that it covered the worst of the bruising. 
ʹCome on, Hagrid, tell us what youʹve been up to!ʹ said Ron. Tell us about being 
attacked by the giants and Harry can tell you about being attacked by the 
Dementors ‐ʹ 
Hagrid choked in his mug and dropped his steak at the same time; a large 
quantity of spit, tea and dragon blood was sprayed over the table as Hagrid 
coughed and spluttered and the steak slid, with a soft splat, on to the floor. 
ʹWhadda yeh mean, attacked by Dementors?ʹ growled Hagrid. 
ʹDidnʹt you know?ʹ Hermione asked him, wide‐eyed. 

ʹI donʹ know anythinʹ thatʹs bin happeninʹ since I left. I was on a secret mission, 
wasnʹ I, didnʹ wanʹ owls followinʹ me all over the place ‐ ruddy Dementors! 
Yehʹre not serious?ʹ 
ʹYeah, 1 am, they turned up in Little Whingmg and attacked my cousin and me, 
and then the Ministry of Magic expelled me ‐ʹ 
ʹWHAT?ʹ 
ʹ‐ and I had to go to a hearing and everything, but tell us about the giants first.ʹ 
ʹYou were expelled!ʹ 
Tell us about your summer and Iʹll tell you about mine.ʹ 
Hagrid glared at him through his one open eye. Harry looked right back, an 
expression of innocent determination on his face. 
ʹOh, all righʹ,ʹ Hagrid said in a resigned voice. 
He bent down and tugged the dragon steak out of Fangʹs mouth. 
ʹOh, Hagrid, donʹt, itʹs not hygien—ʹ Hermione began, but Hagrid had already 
slapped the meat back over his swollen eye. 
He took another fortifying gulp of tea, then said, ʹWell, we set off righʹ after term 
ended ‐ʹ 
ʹMadame Maxime went with you, then?ʹ Hermione interjected. 
ʹYeah, thaʹs righʹ,ʹ said Hagrid, and a softened expression appeared on the few 
inches of face that were not obscured by beard or green steak. ʹYeah, it was jusʹ 
the pair of us. Anʹ Iʹll tell yeh this, sheʹs not afraid of roughinʹ it, Olympe. Yeh 
know, sheʹs a fine, well‐dressed woman, anʹ knowinʹ where we was goinʹ I 
wondered ʹow sheʹd feel abouʹ clamberinʹ over boulders anʹ sleepinʹ in caves anʹ 
thaʹ, buʹ she never complained once.ʹ 
ʹYou knew where you were going?ʹ Harry repeated. ʹYou knew where the giants 
were?ʹ 
ʹWell, Dumbledore knew, anʹ he told us,ʹ said Hagrid. 

ʹAre they hidden?ʹ asked Ron. ʹIs it a secret, where they are?ʹ 
ʹNot reallyʹ said Hagrid, shaking his shaggy head. ʹItʹs jusʹ that mosʹ wizards 
arenʹ bothered where they are,ʹsʹlong as itʹs a good long way away. But where 
they areʹs very difficult ter get ter, fer humans anyway, so we needed 
Dumbledoreʹs instructions. Took us abouʹ a month ter get there ‐ʹ 
ʹA month?ʹ said Ron, as though he had never heard of a journey lasting such a 
ridiculously long time. ʹBut ‐ why couldnʹt you just grab a Portkey or something?ʹ 
There was an odd expression in Hagridʹs unobscured eye as he surveyed Ron; it 
was almost pitying. 
ʹWeʹre beinʹ watched, Ron,ʹ he said gruffly. 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean?ʹ 
ʹYeh donʹ understand,ʹ said Hagrid. The Ministryʹs keepinʹ an eye on 
Dumbledore anʹ anyone they reckonʹs in league with ʹim, anʹ ‐ʹ 
ʹWe know about that,ʹ said Harry quickly keen to hear the rest of Hagridʹs story, 
ʹwe know about the Ministry watching Dumbledore ‐ʹ 
ʹSo you couldnʹt use magic to get there?ʹ asked Ron, looking thunderstruck, ʹyou 
had to act like Muggles all the way?ʹ 
ʹWell, not exactly all the wayʹ said Hagrid cagily. ʹWe jusʹ had ter be careful, 
ʹcause Olympe anʹ me, we stick out a bit —ʹ 
Ron made a stifled noise somewhere between a snort and a sniff and hastily took 
a gulp of tea. 
ʹ‐ so weʹre not hard ter follow. We was pretendinʹ we was goinʹ on holiday 
together, so we got inter France anʹ we made like we 
I 
was headinʹ fer where Olympes school is, ʹcause we knew we was beinʹ tailed by 
someone from the Ministry. We had to go slow, ʹcause Iʹm not reallyʹsʹposed ter 
use magic anʹ we knew the Ministryʹd be lookinʹ fer a reason ter run us in. But we 
managed ter give the berk tailinʹ us the slip round abouʹ Dee‐John —ʹ 

ʹOoooh, Dijon?ʹ said Hermione excitedly. ʹIʹve been there on holiday, did you see 
‐?ʹ 
She fell silent at the look on Ronʹs face. 
ʹWe chanced a bit oʹ magic after that anʹ it wasnʹ a bad journey. Ran inter a couple 
oʹ mad trolls on the Polish border anʹ I had a slighʹ disagreement with a vampire 
in a pub in Minsk, buʹ apart from thaʹ couldnʹtʹa bin smoother. 
ʹAnʹ then we reached the place, anʹ we started trekkinʹ up through the mountains, 
lookinʹ fer signs of ʹem… 
We had ter lay off the magic once we got near ʹem. Partly ʹcause they donʹ like 
wizards anʹ we didnʹ want ter put their backs up too soon, anʹ partly ʹcause 
Dumbledore had warned us You‐Know‐Who was bound ter be after the giants 
anʹ all. Said it was odds on heʹd sent a messenger off ter them already. Told us ter 
be very careful of drawinʹ attention ter ourselves as we got nearer in case there 
was Death Eaters around.ʹ 
Hagrid paused for a long draught of tea. 
ʹGo on!ʹ said Harry urgently. 
ʹFound ʹem,ʹ said Hagrid baldly. ʹWent over a ridge one nighʹ anʹ there they was, 
spread ouʹ underneath us. Little fires burninʹ below anʹ huge shadows… it was 
like watchinʹ bits oʹ the mountain movinʹ.ʹ 
ʹHow big are they?ʹ asked Ron in a hushed voice. 
ʹBout twenty feet,ʹ said Hagrid casually. ʹSome oʹ the bigger ones mighta bin 
twenty‐five.ʹ 
ʹAnd how many were there?ʹ asked Harry. 
ʹI reckon abouʹ seventy or eighty,ʹ said Hagrid. 
ʹIs that all?ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹYep,ʹ said Hagrid sadly, ʹeighty left, anʹ there was loads once, musta bin a 
hundred diffʹrent tribes from all over the world. Buʹ theyʹve bin dyinʹ out fer 
ages. Wizards killed a few, oʹ course, buʹ mostly they killed each other, anʹ now 

theyʹre dyinʹ out faster than ever. Theyʹre not made ter live bunched up together 
like thaʹ. Dumbledore says itʹs our fault, it was the wizards who forced ʹem to go 
anʹ made ʹem live a good long way from us anʹ they had no choice buʹ ter stick 
together fer their own protection.ʹ 
ʹSo,ʹ said Harry, ʹy°u saw them and then what?ʹ 
ʹWell, we waited till morning, didnʹ want ter go sneakinʹ up on ʹem in the dark, 
fer our own safety,ʹ said Hagrid. ʺBout three in the morninʹ they fell asleep jusʹ 
where they was sittinʹ. We didnʹ dare sleep. Fer one thing, we wanted ter make 
sure none of ʹem woke up anʹ came up where we were, anʹ fer another, the 
snorinʹ was unbelievable. Caused an avalanche near morninʹ. 
ʹAnyway, once it was light we wenʹ down ter see ʹem.ʹ 
ʹJust like that?ʹ said Ron, looking awestruck. ʹYou just walked right into a giant 
camp?ʹ 
ʹWell, Dumbledoreʹd told us how ter do it,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹGive the Gurg gifts, 
show some respect, yeh know.ʹ 
ʹGive the what gifts?ʹ asked Harry. 
ʹOh, the Gurg ‐ means the chief.ʹ 
ʹHow could you tell which one was the Gurg?ʹ asked Ron. 
Hagrid grunted in amusement. 
ʹNo problem,ʹ he said. ʹHe was the biggest, the ugliest anʹ the laziest. Sittinʹ there 
waitinʹ ter be brought food by the others. Dead goats anʹ such like. Name oʹ 
Karkus. Iʹd put him at twenty‐two, twenty‐three feet anʹ the weight oʹ a couple oʹ 
bull elephants. Skin like rhino hide anʹ all.ʹ 
ʹAnd you just walked up to him?ʹ said Hermione breathlessly. 
ʹWell… down ter him, where he was lyinʹ in the valley. They was in this dip 
between four pretty high mountains, see, beside a mountain lake, anʹ Karkus was 
lyinʹ by the lake roarinʹ at the others ter feed him anʹ his wife. Olympe anʹ I went 
down the mountainside ‐ʹ 

ʹBut didnʹt they try and kill you when they saw you?ʹ asked Ron incredulously. 
ʹIt was defʹnitely on some oʹ their minds,ʹ said Hagrid, shrugging, ʹbut we did 
what Dumbledore told us ter do, which was ter hold our gift up high anʹ keep 
our eyes on the Gurg anʹ ignore the others. So thaʹs what we did. Anʹ the rest of 
ʹem went quiet anʹ 
watched us pass anʹ we got right up ter Karkusʹs feet anʹ we bowed anʹ put our 
present down in front oʹ him.ʹ 
ʹWhat do you give a giant?ʹ asked Ron eagerly. ʹFood?ʹ 
ʹNah, he can get food all righʹ fer himself,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹWe took him magic. 
Giants like magic, jusʹ donʹ like us usinʹ it against ʹem. Anyway, that firsʹ day we 
gave ʹim a branch oʹ Gubraithian fire.ʹ 
Hermione said, ʹWow!ʹ softly, but Harry and Ron both frowned in puzzlement. 
ʹA branch of ‐?ʹ 
ʹEverlasting fire,ʹ said Hermione irritably, ʹyou ought to know that by now. 
Professor Flitwickʹs mentioned it at least twice in class!ʹ 
ʹWell, anyway,ʹ said Hagrid quickly, intervening before Ron could answer back, 
ʹDumbledoreʹd bewitched this branch to burn fer evermore, which isnʹ somethinʹ 
any wizard could do, anʹ so I lies it down in the snow by Karkusʹs feet and says, 
ʺA gift to the Gurg of the giants from Albus Dumbledore, who sends his 
respectful greetings.ʹʺ 
ʹAnd what did Karkus say?ʹ asked Harry eagerly. 
ʹNothinʹ,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹDidnʹ speak English.ʹ 
ʹYouʹre kidding!ʹ 
ʹDidnʹ matter,ʹ said Hagrid imperturbably, ʹDumbledore had warned us thaʹ 
mighʹ happen. Karkus knew enough to yell fer a couple oʹ giants who knew our 
lingo anʹ they translated fer us.ʹ 
ʹAnd did he like the present?ʹ asked Ron. 

ʹOh yeah, it went down a storm once they understood what it was,ʹ said Hagrid, 
turning his dragon steak over to press the cooler side to his swollen eye. ʹVery 
pleased. So then I said, ʺAlbus Dumbledore asks the Gurg to speak with his 
messenger when he returns tomorrow with another gift.ʺʹ 
Why couldnʹt you speak to them that day?ʹ asked Hermione. 
ʹDumbledore wanted us ter take it very slow,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹLet ʹem see we kept 
our promises. Weʹll come back tomorrow with another present, anʹ then we do come 
back with another present ‐ gives a good impression, see? Anʹ gives them time 
ter test out the firsʹ present anʹ find out itʹs a good one, anʹ get ʹem eager fer more. 
In any case, giants like Karkus ‐ overload ʹem with information anʹ 
theyʹll kill yeh jusʹ to simplify things. So we bowed outta the way anʹ went off anʹ 
found ourselves a nice little cave ter spend that night in anʹ the followinʹ morninʹ 
we went back anʹ this time we found Karkus sittinʹ up waitinʹ fer us lookinʹ all 
eager.ʹ 
ʹAnd you talked to him?ʹ 
ʹOh yeah. Firsʹ we presented him with a nice battle helmet ‐goblin‐made anʹ 
indestructible, yeh know ‐ anʹ then we sat down anʹ we talked.ʹ 
ʹWhat did he say?ʹ 
ʹNot much,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹListened mostly. Buʹ there were good signs. Heʹd heard 
oʹ Dumbledore, heard heʹd argued against the killinʹ oʹ the last giants in Britain. 
Karkus seemed ter be quite intʹrested in what Dumbledore had ter say. Anʹ a few 
oʹ the others, ʹspecially the ones who had some English, they gathered round anʹ 
listened too. We were hopeful when we left that day. Promised ter come back 
next morninʹ with another present…;.• 
ʹBuʹ that night it all wenʹ wrong.ʹ ^: 
What dʹyou mean?ʹ said Ron quickly. 
ʹWell, like I say, theyʹre not meant ter live together, giants,ʹ said Hagrid sadly. 
ʹNot in big groups like that. They canʹ help themselves, they half kill each other 
every few weeks. The men fight each other anʹ the women fight each other; the 
remnants of the old tribes fight each other, anʹ thatʹs even without squabbles over 

food anʹ the best fires anʹ sleepinʹ spots. Yehʹd think, seeinʹ as how their whole 
race is abouʹ finished, theyʹd lay off each other, buʹ…ʹ 
Hagrid sighed deeply. 
That night a fight broke out, we saw it from the mouth of our cave, lookinʹ down 
on the valley. Went on fer hours, yeh wouldnʹ believe the noise. Anʹ when the 
sun came up the snow was scarlet anʹ his head was lyinʹ at the bottom oʹ the 
lake.ʹ 
ʹWhose head?ʹ gasped Hermione. 
ʹKarkusʹs,ʹ said Hagrid heavily. There was a new Gurg, Golgomath.ʹ He sighed 
deeply. ʹWell, we hadnʹ bargained on a new Gurg two days after weʹd made 
friendly contact with the firsʹ one, anʹ we had a funny feelinʹ Golgomath wouldnʹ 
be so keen ter listen to us, buʹ we had ter try.ʹ 
i
ʹYou went to speak to him?ʹ asked Ron incredulously. ʹAfter youʹd watched him 
rip off another giantʹs head?ʹ 
ʹCourse we did,ʹ said Hagrid, ʹwe hadnʹ gone all that way ter give up after two 
days! We wenʹ down with the next present weʹd meant ter give ter Karkus. 
ʹI knew it was no go before Iʹd opened me mouth. He was sitting there wearinʹ 
Karkusʹs helmet, leerinʹ at us as we got nearer. Heʹs massive, one oʹ the biggest 
ones there. Black hair anʹ matchinʹ teeth anʹ a necklace oʹ bones. Human‐lookinʹ 
bones, some of ʹem. Well, I gave it a go ‐ held out a great roll oʹ dragon skin ‐ anʹ 
said, ʺA gift fer the Gurg of the giants —ʺ Nexʹ thing I knew, I was hanginʹ 
upside‐down in the air by me feet, two of his mates had grabbed me.ʹ 
Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth. 
ʹHow did you get out of that?ʹ asked Harry. 
ʹWouldnʹta done if Olympe hadnʹ bin there,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹShe pulled out her 
wand anʹ did some oʹ the fastesʹ spellwork Iʹve ever seen. Ruddy marvellous. Hit 
the two holdinʹ me right in the eyes with Conjunctivitus Curses anʹ they dropped 
me straightaway ‐buʹ we were in trouble then, ʹcause weʹd used magic against 

ʹem, anʹ thatʹs what giants hate abouʹ wizards. We had ter leg it anʹ we knew 
there was no way we was going ter be able ter march inter the camp again.ʹ 
ʹBlimey, Hagrid,ʹ said Ron quietly. 
ʹSo, how come itʹs taken you so long to get home if you were only there for three 
days?ʹ asked Hermione. 
We didnʹ leave after three days!ʹ said Hagrid, looking outraged. ʹDumbledore 
was relyinʹ on us!ʹ 
ʹBut youʹve just said there was no way you could go back!ʹ 
ʹNot by daylight we couldnʹ, no. We just had ter rethink a bit. Spent a couple oʹ 
days lyinʹ low up in the cave anʹ watchinʹ. Anʹ whaʹ we saw wasnʹ good.ʹ 
ʹDid he rip off more heads?ʹ asked Hermione, sounding squeamish. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Hagrid, ʹI wish he had.ʹ 
ʹWhat dʹyou mean?ʹ 
ʹI mean we soon found out he didnʹ object ter all wizards ‐ just us.ʹ 
ʹDeath Eaters?ʹ said Harry quickly. 
ʹYep,ʹ said Hagrid darkly. ʹCouple of ʹem were visitinʹ him evʹry day, bringinʹ 
gifts ter the Gurg, anʹ he wasnʹ dangling them upside‐down.ʹ 
ʹHow dʹyou know they were Death Eaters?ʹ said Ron. 
ʹBecause I recognised one of ʹem,ʹ Hagrid growled. ʹMacnair, remember him? 
Bloke they sent ter kill Buckbeak? Maniac, he is. Likes killinʹ as much as 
Golgomath; no wonder they were gettinʹ on so well.ʹ 
ʹSo Macnairs persuaded the giants to join You‐Know‐Who?ʹ said Hermione 
desperately. 
ʹHold yer Hippogriffs, I havenʹ finished me story yet!ʹ said Hagrid indignantly, 
who, considering he had not wanted to tell them anything in the first place, now 
seemed to be rather enjoying himself. ʹMe anʹ Olympe talked it over anʹ we 
agreed, jusʹ 

ʹcause the Gurg looked like favourinʹ You‐Know‐Who didnʹ mean all of ʹem 
would. We had ter try anʹ persuade some oʹ the others, the ones who hadnʹ 
wanted Golgomath as Gurg.ʹ 
ʹHow could you tell which ones they were?ʹ asked Ron. 
ʹWell, they were the ones beinʹ beaten to a pulp, werenʹ they?ʹ said Hagrid 
patiently. The ones with any sense were keepinʹ outta Golgomathʹs way, hidinʹ 
out in caves rounʹ the gully jusʹ like we were. So we decided weʹd go pokinʹ 
round the caves by night anʹ see if we couldnʹ persuade a few oʹ them.ʹ 
ʹYou went poking around dark caves looking for giants?ʹ said Ron, with awed 
respect in his voice. 
ʹWell, it wasnʹ the giants who worried us most,ʹ said Hagrid. We were more 
concerned abouʹ the Death Eaters. Dumbledore had told us before we wenʹ not 
ter tangle with ʹem if we could avoid it, anʹ the trouble was they knew we was 
around — ʹspect Golgomath told ʹem abouʹ us. At night, when the giants were 
sleepinʹ anʹ we wanted ter be creepinʹ inter the caves, Macnair anʹ the other one 
were sneakinʹ round the mountains lookinʹ fer us. I was hard put to stop Olympe 
jumpinʹ out at ʹem,ʹ said Hagrid, the corners of his mouth lifting his wild beard, 
ʹshe was rarinʹ ter attack ʹem… sheʹs somethinʹ when sheʹs roused, Olympe… 
fiery, yeh know… ʹspect itʹs the French in her…ʹ 
Hagrid gazed misty‐eyed into the fire. Harry allowed him thirty seconds of 
reminiscence before clearing his throat loudly. 
ʹSo, what happened? Did you ever get near any of the other giants?ʹ 
ʹWhat? Oh… oh, yeah, we did. Yeah, on the third night after Karkus was killed 
we crept outta the cave weʹd bin hidinʹ in anʹ headed back down inter the gully, 
keepinʹ our eyes skinned fer the Death Eaters. Got inside a few oʹ the caves, no go 
‐ then, in abouʹ the sixth one, we found three giants hidinʹ.ʹ 
ʹCave mustʹve been cramped,ʹ said Ron. 
ʹWasnʹ room ter swing a Kneazle,ʹ said Hagrid. 
ʹDidnʹt they attack you when they saw you?ʹ asked Hermione. 

ʹProbably woulda done if theyʹd bin in any condition,ʹ said Hagrid, ʹbut they was 
badly hurt, all three oʹ them; Golgomathʹs lot had beaten ʹem unconscious; theyʹd 
woken up anʹ crawled inter the nearest shelter they could find. Anyway, one oʹ 
them had a bit of English anʹ 
ʹe translated fer the others, anʹ what we had ter say didnʹ seem ter go down too 
badly. So we kepʹ goinʹ back, visitinʹ the wounded… I reckon we had abouʹ six or 
seven oʹ them convinced at one poinʹ.ʹ 
ʹSix or seven?ʹ said Ron eagerly. ʹWell thatʹs not bad ‐ are they going to come over 
here and start fighting You‐Know‐Who with us?ʹ 
But Hermione said, ʹWhat do you mean ʺat one pointʺ, Hagrid?ʹ 
Hagrid looked at her sadly. 
ʹGolgomathʹs lot raided the caves. The ones thaʹ survived didnʹ wanʹ no more ter 
to do with us after that.ʹ 
ʹSo… so there arenʹt any giants coming?ʹ said Ron, looking disappointed. 
ʹNope,ʹ said Hagrid, heaving a deep sigh as he turned over his steak and applied 
the cooler side to his face, ʹbut we did whaʹ we meant ter do, we gave ʹem 
Dumbledoreʹs message anʹ some oʹ them heard it anʹ I spect some oʹ themʹll 
remember it. Jusʹ maybe, them that donʹ want ter stay around Golgomathʹll move 
outta the mountains, anʹ thereʹs gotta be a chance theyʹll remember Dumbledoreʹs 
friendly to ʹem… could be theyʹll come.ʹ 
Snow was filling up the window now. Harry became aware that the knees of his 
robes were soaked through: Fang was drooling with his head in Harryʹs lap. 
ʹHagrid?ʹ said Hermione quietly after a while. 
ʹMmm?ʹ 
ʹDid you… was there any sign of… did you hear anything about your… your… 
mother while you were there?ʹ 
Hagridʹs unobscured eye rested upon her and Hermione looked rather scared. 
ʹIʹm sorry… I… forget it ‐ʹ 

ʹDead,ʹ Hagrid grunted. ʹDied years ago. They told me.ʹ 
ʹOh… Iʹm… Iʹm really sorryʹ said Hermione in a very small voice. Hagrid 
shrugged his massive shoulders. 
ʹNo need,ʹ he said shortly. ʹCanʹt remember her much. Wasnʹ a great mother.ʹ 
They were silent again. Hermione glanced nervously at Harry and Ron, plainly 
wanting them to speak. 
ʹBut you still havenʹt explained how you got in this state, Hagrid,ʹ Ron said, 
gesturing towards Hagridʹs bloodstained face. 
ʹOr why youʹre back so late,ʹ said Harry. ʹSirius says Madame Maxime got back 
ages ago ‐ʹ 
ʹWho attacked you?ʹ said Ron. 
ʹI havenʹ bin attacked!ʹ said Hagrid emphatically. ʹI ‐ʹ 
But the rest of his words were drowned in a sudden outbreak of rapping on the 
door. Hermione gasped; her mug slipped through her fingers and smashed on 
the floor; Fang yelped. All four of them stared at the window beside the 
doorway. The shadow of somebody small and squat rippled across the thin 
curtain. 
ʹItʹs her!ʹ Ron whispered. 
ʹGet under here!ʹ Harry said quickly; seizing the Invisibility Cloak, he whirled it 
over himself and Hermione while Ron tore around the table and dived under the 
Cloak as well. Huddled together, they backed away into a corner. Fang was 
barking madly at the door. Hagrid looked thoroughly confused. 
ʹHagrid, hide our mugs!ʹ 
Hagrid seized Harry and Ronʹs mugs and shoved them under the cushion in 
Fangʹs basket. Fang was now leaping up at the door; Hagrid pushed him out of 
the way with his foot and pulled it open. 

Professor Umbridge was standing in the doorway wearing her green tweed cloak 
and a matching hat with earflaps. Lips pursed, she leaned back so as to see 
Hagridʹs face; she barely reached his navel. 
ʹSo,ʹ she said slowly and loudly, as though speaking to somebody deaf. ʹYouʹre 
Hagrid, are you?ʹ 
Without waiting for an answer she strolled into the room, her bulging eyes 
rolling in every direction. 
ʹGet away,ʹ she snapped, waving her handbag at Fang, who had bounded up to 
her and was attempting to lick her face. 
ʹEr ‐ I donʹ want ter be rude,ʹ said Hagrid, staring at her, ʹbut who the ruddy hell 
are you?ʹ 
ʹMy name is Dolores Umbridge.ʹ 
Her eyes were sweeping the cabin. Twice they stared directly into the corner 
where Harry stood, sandwiched between Ron and Hermione. 
ʹDolores Umbridge?ʹ Hagrid said, sounding thoroughly confused. ʹI thought you 
were one oʹ them Ministry ‐ donʹ you work with Fudge?ʹ 
ʹI was Senior Undersecretary to the Minister, yes,ʹ said Umbridge, now pacing 
around the cabin, taking in every tiny detail within, from the haversack against 
the wall to the abandoned travelling cloak. ʹI am now the Defence Against the 
Dark Arts teacher ‐ʹ 
Thaʹs brave of yeh,ʹ said Hagrid, ʹthereʹs not manyʹd take thaʹ job any more.ʹ 
ʹ‐ and Hogwarts High Inquisitor,ʹ said Umbridge, giving no sign that she had 
heard him. 
ʹWhaʹs that?ʹ said Hagrid, frowning. 
ʹPrecisely what I was going to ask,ʹ said Umbridge, pointing at the broken shards 
of china on the floor that had been Hermioneʹs mug. 

ʹOh,ʹ said Hagrid, with a most unhelpful glance towards the corner where Harry, 
Ron and Hermione stood hidden, ʹoh, thaʹ was… was Fang. He broke a mug. So I 
had ter use this one instead.ʹ 
Hagrid pointed to the mug from which he had been drinking, one hand still 
clamped over the dragon steak pressed to his eye. Umbridge stood facing him 
now, taking in every detail of his appearance instead of the cabinʹs. 
ʹI heard voices,ʹ she said quietly. 
ʹI was talkinʹ ter Fang,ʹ said Hagrid stoutly. 
ʹAnd was he talking back to you?ʹ 
ʹWell… in a manner oʹ speakinʹ,ʹ said Hagrid, looking uncomfortable. ʹI 
sometimes say Fangʹs near enough human ‐ʹ 
There are three sets of footprints in the snow leading from the castle doors to 
your cabin,ʹ said Umbridge sleekly. 
Hermione gasped; Harry clapped a hand over her mouth. Luckily, Fang was 
sniffing loudly around the hem of Professor Umbridgeʹs robes and she did not 
appear to have heard. 
ʹWell, 1 onʹy jusʹ got back,ʹ said Hagrid, waving an enormous hand at the 
haversack. ʹMaybe someone came ter call earlier anʹ I missed ʹem.ʹ 
ʹThere are no footsteps leading away from your cabin door.ʹ 
ʹWell, I… 1 donʹ know why thatʹd be…ʹ said Hagrid, tugging nervously at his 
beard and again glancing towards the corner where Harry, Ron and Hermione 
stood, as though asking for help. ʹErm…ʹ 
Umbridge wheeled round and strode the length of the cabin, looking around 
carefully. She bent and peered under the bed. She opened Hagridʹs cupboards. 
She passed within two inches of where Harry, Ron and Hermione stood pressed 
against the wall; Harry actually pulled in his stomach as she walked by. After 
looking carefully inside the enormous cauldron Hagrid used for cooking, she 
wheeled round again and said, ʹWhat has happened to you? How did you 
sustain those injuries?ʹ 

Hagrid hastily removed the dragon steak from his face, which in Harrys opinion 
was a mistake, because the black and purple bruising all around his eye was now 
clearly visible, not to mention the large amount of fresh and congealed blood on 
his face. ʹOh, 1… had a bit of an accident,ʹ he said lamely. 
ʹWhat sort of accident?ʹ 
ʹI ‐ I tripped.ʹ 
ʹYou tripped,ʹ she repeated coolly. 
ʹYeah, thaʹs right. Over… over a friendʹs broomstick. I donʹ fly, meself. Well, look 
at the size oʹ me, I donʹ reckon thereʹs a broomstick thatʹd hold me. Friend oʹ 
mine breeds Abraxan horses, 1 dunno if youʹve ever seen ʹem, big beasts, 
winged, yeh know, Iʹve had a bit of a ride on one oʹ them anʹ it was ‐ʹ 
ʹWhere have you been?ʹ asked Umbridge, cutting coolly through Hagridʹs 
babbling. 
ʹWhereʹve I ‐?ʹ 
ʹBeen, yes,ʹ she said. Term started two months ago. Another teacher has had to 
cover your classes. None of your colleagues has been able to give me any 
information as to your whereabouts. You left no address. Where have you been?ʹ 
There was a pause in which Hagrid stared at her with his newly uncovered eye. 
Harry could almost hear his brain working furiously. 
ʹI ‐ Iʹve been away for me health,ʹ he said. 
ʹFor your health,ʹ repeated Professor Umbridge. Her eyes travelled over Hagridʹs 
discoloured and swollen face; dragon blood dripped gently and silently on to his 
waistcoat. ʹI see.ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Hagrid, ʹbit oʹ ‐ oʹ fresh air, yeh know ‐ʹ 
ʹYes, as gamekeeper fresh air must be so difficult to come by,ʹ said Umbridge 
sweetly. The small patch of Hagridʹs face that was not black or purple, flushed. 
ʹWell — change oʹ scene, yeh know ‐ʹ 

ʹMountain scenery?ʹ said Umbridge swiftly. 
She knows, Harry thought desperately. 
ʹMountains?ʹ Hagrid repeated, clearly thinking fast. ʹNope, South oʹ France fer 
me. Bit oʹ sun anʹ… anʹ sea.ʹ 
ʹReally?ʹ said Umbridge. ʹYou donʹt have much of a tan.ʹ 
ʹYeah… well… sensitive skin,ʹ said Hagrid, attempting an ingratiating smile. 
Harry noticed that two of his teeth had been knocked out. Umbridge looked at 
him coldly; his smile faltered. Then she hoisted her handbag a little higher into 
the crook of her arm and said, ʹI shall, of course, be informing the Minister of 
your late return.ʹ 
ʹRighʹ,ʹ said Hagrid, nodding. 
ʹYou ought to know, too, that as High Inquisitor it is my unfortunate but 
necessary duty to inspect my fellow teachers. So I daresay we shall meet again 
soon enough.ʹ 
She turned sharply and marched back to the door. 
ʹYouʹre inspectinʹ us?ʹ Hagrid repeated blankly, looking after her. 
ʹOh, yes,ʹ said Umbridge softly, looking back at him with her hand on the door 
handle. The Ministry is determined to weed out unsatisfactory teachers, Hagrid. 
Goodnight.ʹ 
She left, closing the door behind her with a snap. Harry made to pull off the 
Invisibility Cloak but Hermione seized his wrist. 
ʹNot yet,ʹ she breathed in his ear. ʹShe might not be gone yet.ʹ 
Hagrid seemed to be thinking the same way; he stumped across the room and 
pulled back the curtain an inch or so. 
ʹSheʹs goinʹ back ter the castle,ʹ he said in a low voice. ʹBlimey… inspectinʹ people, 
is she?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, pulling off the Cloak. Trelawneyʹs on probation already…ʹ 

ʹUm… what sort of thing are you planning to do with us in class, Hagrid?ʹ asked 
Hermione. 
ʹOh, donʹ you worry abouʹ that, Iʹve got a great load oʹ lessons planned,ʹ said 
Hagrid enthusiastically, scooping up his dragon steak from the table and 
slapping it over his eye again. ʹIʹve bin keepinʹ a couple oʹ creatures saved fer yer 
OWL year; you wait, theyʹre somethinʹ really special.ʹ 
ʹErm… special in what way?ʹ asked Hermione tentatively. 
ʹIʹm not sayinʹ,ʹ said Hagrid happily. ʹI donʹ want ter spoil the surprise.ʹ 
ʹLook, Hagrid,ʹ said Hermione urgently, dropping all pretence, ʹProfessor 
Umbridge wonʹt be at all happy if you bring anything to class thatʹs too 
dangerous.ʹ 
ʹDangerous?ʹ said Hagrid, looking genially bemused. ʹDonʹ be silly, I wouldnʹ 
give yeh anythinʹ dangerous! I mean, all righʹ, they can look after themselves ‐ʹ 
ʹHagrid, youʹve got to pass Umbridgeʹs inspection, and to do that it would really 
be better if she saw you teaching us how to look after Porlocks, how to tell the 
difference between Knarls and hedgehogs, stuff like that!ʹ said Hermione 
earnestly. 
ʹBut thaʹs not very interestinʹ, Hermione,ʹ said Hagrid. The stuff Iʹve gotʹs much 
more impressive. Iʹve bin bringinʹ 
ʹem on fer years, I reckon Iʹve got the onʹy domestic herd in Britain.ʹ 
ʹHagrid… please…ʹ said Hermione, a note of real desperation in her voice. 
ʹUmbridge is looking for any excuse to get rid of 
HA GRIDʹS TALE 
teachers she thinks are too close to Dumbledore. Please, Hagrid, teach us 
something dull thatʹs bound to come up in our OWL.ʹ 
But Hagrid merely yawned widely and cast a one‐eyed look of longing towards 
the vast bed in the corner. 

ʹLisʹen, itʹs bin a long day anʹ itʹs late,ʹ he said, patting Hermione gently on the 
shoulder, so that her knees gave way and hit the floor with a thud. ʹOh ‐ sorry ‐ʹ 
He pulled her back up by the neck of her robes. ʹLook, donʹ you go worryinʹ 
abouʹ me, I promise yeh Iʹve got really good stuff planned fer yer lessons now Iʹm 
back… now you lot had better get back up to the castle, anʹ donʹ forget ter wipe 
yer footprints out behind yeh!ʹ 
ʹI dunno if you got through to him,ʹ said Ron a short while later when, having 
checked that the coast was clear, they walked back up to the castle through the 
thickening snow, leaving no trace behind them due to the Obliteration Charm 
Hermione was performing as they went. 
Then Iʹll go back again tomorrow,ʹ said Hermione determinedly. Til plan his 
lessons for him if I have to. I donʹt care if she throws out Trelawney but sheʹs not 
getting rid of Hagrid!ʹ 
— CHAPTER TWENTY‐ONE — 
The Eye of the Snake
Hermione ploughed her way back to Hagridʹs cabin through two feet of snow on 
Sunday morning. Harry and Ron wanted to go with her, but their mountain of 
homework had reached an alarming height again, so they remained grudgingly 
in the common room, trying to ignore the gleeful shouts drifting up from the 
grounds outside, where students were enjoying themselves skating on the frozen 
lake, tobogganing and, worst of all, bewitching snowballs to zoom up to 
Gryffindor Tower and rap hard on the windows. 
ʹOi!ʹ bellowed Ron, finally losing patience and sticking his head out of the 
window, ʹI am a prefect and if one more snowball hits this window ‐ OUCH!ʹ 
He withdrew his head sharply, his face covered in snow. 
ʹItʹs Fred and George,ʹ he said bitterly, slamming the window behind him. 
ʹGits…ʹ 
Hermione returned from Hagridʹs just before lunch, shivering slightly, her robes 
damp to the knees. 
ʹSo?ʹ said Ron, looking up when she entered. ʹGot all his lessons planned for 
him?ʹ 

ʹWell, I tried,ʹ she said dully, sinking into a chair beside Harry. She pulled out her 
wand and gave it a complicated little wave so that hot air streamed out of the tip; 
she then pointed this at her robes, which began to steam as they dried out. ʹHe 
wasnʹt even there when 1 arrived, I was knocking for at least half an hour. And 
then he came stumping out of the Forest ‐ʹ 
Harry groaned. The Forbidden Forest was teeming with the kind of creatures 
most likely to get Hagrid the sack. ʹWhatʹs he keeping in there? Did he say?ʹ he 
asked. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Hermione miserably. ʹHe says he wants them to be a surprise. 1 tried to 
explain about Umbridge, but he just doesnʹt get it. He kept saying nobody in 
their right mind would rather study Knarls than Chimaeras ‐ oh, I donʹt think 
heʹs got a Chimaera,ʹ she added at the appalled look on Harry and Ronʹs faces, 
ʹbut thatʹs not for lack of trying, from what he said about how hard it is to get 
eggs. 1 donʹt know how many times I told him heʹd be better off following 
Grubbly‐Plankʹs plan, I honestly donʹt think he listened to half of what 1 said. 
Heʹs in a bit of a funny mood, you know. He still wonʹt say how he got all those 
injuries.ʹ 
Hagridʹs reappearance at the staff table at breakfast next day was not greeted by 
enthusiasm from all students. Some, like Fred, George and Lee, roared with 
delight and sprinted up the aisle between the Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tables to 
wring Hagridʹs enormous hand; others, like Parvati and Lavender, exchanged 
gloomy looks and shook their heads. Harry knew that many of them preferred 
Professor Grubbly‐Plankʹs lessons, and the worst of it was that a very small, 
unbiased part of him knew that they had good reason: Grubbly‐Plankʹs idea of 
an interesting class was not one where there was a risk that somebody might 
have their head ripped off. 
It was with a certain amount of apprehension that Harry, Ron and Hermione 
headed down to Hagridʹs on Tuesday, heavily muffled against the cold. Harry 
was worried, not only about what Hagrid might have decided to teach them, but 
also about how the rest of the class, particularly Malfoy and his cronies, would 
behave if Umbridge was watching them. 
However, the High Inquisitor was nowhere to be seen as they struggled through 
the snow towards Hagrid, who stood waiting for them on the edge of the Forest. 
He did not present a reassuring sight; the bruises that had been purple on 
Saturday night were now tinged with green and yellow and some of his cuts still 

seemed to be bleeding. Harry could not understand this: had Hagrid perhaps 
been attacked by some creature whose venom prevented the wounds it inflicted 
from healing? As though to complete the ominous picture, Hagrid was carrying 
what looked like half a dead cow over his shoulder. 
ʹWeʹre workinʹ in here today!ʹ Hagrid called happily to the approaching students, 
jerking his head back at the dark trees behind him. ʹBit more sheltered! Anyway, 
they prefer the dark.ʹ 
ʹWhat prefers the dark?ʹ Harry heard Malfoy say sharply to Crabbe and Goyle, a 
trace of panic in his voice. ʹWhat did he say prefers the dark ‐ did you hear?ʹ 
Harry remembered the only other occasion on which Malfoy had entered the 
Forest before now; he had not been very brave then, either. He smiled to himself; 
after the Quidditch match anything that caused Malfoy discomfort was all right 
with him. 
ʹReady?ʹ said Hagrid cheerfully, looking around at the class. ʹRight, well, Iʹve bin 
savinʹ a trip inter the Forest fer yer fifth year. Thought weʹd go anʹ see these 
creatures in their natural habitat. Now, what weʹre studyinʹ today is pretty rare, 1 
reckon Iʹm probably the onʹy person in Britain whoʹs managed ter train ʹem.ʹ 
ʹAnd youʹre sure theyʹre trained, are you?ʹ said Malfoy, the panic in his voice 
even more pronounced. ʹOnly it wouldnʹt be the first time youʹd brought wild 
stuff to class, would it?ʹ 
The Slytherins murmured agreement and a few Gryffindors looked as though 
they thought Malfoy had a fair point, too. 
ʹCourse theyʹre trained,ʹ said Hagrid, scowling and hoisting the dead cow a little 
higher on his shoulder. 
ʹSo what happened to your face, then?ʹ demanded Malfoy. 
ʹMind yer own business!ʹ said Hagrid, angrily. ʹNow, if yehʹve finished askinʹ 
stupid questions, follow me!ʹ 
He turned and strode straight into the Forest. Nobody seemed much disposed to 
follow. Harry glanced at Ron and Hermione, who sighed but nodded, and the 
three of them set off after Hagrid, leading the rest of the class. 

They walked for about ten minutes until they reached a place where the trees 
stood so closely together that it was as dark as twilight and there was no snow at 
all on the ground. With a grunt, Hagrid deposited his half a cow on the ground, 
stepped back and turned to face his class, most of whom were creeping from tree 
to tree towards him, peering around nervously as though expecting to be set 
upon at any moment. 
ʹGather rounʹ, gather rounʹ,ʹ Hagrid encouraged. ʹNow, theyʹll be attracted by the 
smell oʹ the meat but Iʹm goinʹ ter give ʹem a call anyway, ʹcause theyʹll like ter 
know itʹs me.ʹ 
He turned, shook his shaggy head to get the hair out of his face and gave an odd, 
shrieking cry that echoed through the dark trees like the call of some monstrous 
bird. Nobody laughed: most of them looked too scared to make a sound. 
Hagrid gave the shrieking cry again. A minute passed in which the class 
continued to peer nervously over their shoulders and around trees for a first 
glimpse of whatever it was that was coming. And then, as Hagrid shook his hair 
back for a third time and expanded his enormous chest, Harry nudged Ron and 
pointed into the black space between two gnarled yew trees. 
A pair of blank, white, shining eyes were growing larger through the gloom and 
a moment later the dragonish face, neck and then skeletal body of a great, black, 
winged horse emerged from the darkness. It surveyed the class for a few 
seconds, swishing its long black tail, then bowed its head and began to tear flesh 
from the dead cow with its pointed fangs. 
A great wave of relief broke over Harry. Here at last was proof that he had not 
imagined these creatures, that they were real: Hagrid knew about them too. He 
looked eagerly at Ron, but Ron was still staring around into the trees and after a 
few seconds he whispered, ʹWhy doesnʹt Hagrid call again?ʹ 
Most of the rest of the class were wearing expressions as confused and nervously 
expectant as Ronʹs and were still gazing everywhere but at the horse standing 
feet from them. There were only two other people who seemed to be able to see 
them: a stringy Slytherin boy standing just behind Goyle was watching the horse 
eating with an expression of great distaste on his face; and Neville, whose eyes 
were following the swishing progress of the long black tail. 

ʹOh, anʹ here comes another one!ʹ said Hagrid proudly, as a second black horse 
appeared out of the dark trees, folded its leathery wings closer to its body and 
dipped its head to gorge on the meat. ʹNow… put yer hands up, who can see 
ʹem?ʹ 
Immensely pleased to feel that he was at last going to understand the mystery of 
these horses, Harry raised his hand. Hagrid nodded at him. 
ʹYeah… yeah, I knew youʹd be able ter, Harry,ʹ he said seriously. ʹAnʹ you too, 
Neville, eh? Anʹ ‐ʹ 
ʹExcuse me,ʹ said Malfoy in a sneering voice, ʹbut what exactly are we supposed 
to be seeing?ʹ 
For an answer, Hagrid pointed at the cow carcass on the ground. The whole class 
stared at it for a few seconds, then several people gasped and Parvati squealed. 
Harry understood why: bits of flesh stripping themselves away from the bones 
and vanishing into thin air had to look very odd indeed. 
ʹWhatʹs doing it?ʹ Parvati demanded in a terrified voice, retreating behind the 
nearest tree. ʹWhatʹs eating it?ʹ 
Thestrals,ʹ said Hagrid proudly and Hermione gave a soft ʹOh!ʹ of comprehension 
at Harryʹs shoulder. ʹHogwarts has got a whole herd of ʹem in here. Now, who 
knows ‐?ʹ 
ʹBut theyʹre really, really unlucky!ʹ interrupted Parvati, looking alarmed. Theyʹre 
supposed to bring all sorts of horrible misfortune on people who see them. 
Professor Trelawney told me once ‐ʹ 
ʹNo, no, no,ʹ said Hagrid, chuckling, ʹthaʹs jusʹ superstition, that is, they arenʹ 
unlucky, theyʹre dead clever anʹ useful! Course, this lot donʹ get a lot oʹ work, itʹs 
mainly jusʹ pullinʹ the school carriages unless Dumbledoreʹs takinʹ a long journey 
anʹ donʹ want ter Apparate ‐ anʹ hereʹs another couple, look ‐ʹ 
Two more horses came quietly out of the trees, one of them passing very close .to 
Parvati, who shivered and pressed herself closer to the tree, saying, ʹI think 1 felt 
something, I think itʹs near me!ʹ 
ʹDonʹ worry, it wonʹ hurt yen,ʹ said Hagrid patiently. ʹRighʹ, now, who can tell me 
why some oʹ yeh can see ʹem anʹ some canʹt?ʹ 

Hermione raised her hand. 
ʹGo on then,ʹ said Hagrid, beaming at her. 
The only people who can see Thestrals,ʹ she said, ʹare people who have seen 
death.ʹ 
Thaʹs exactly right,ʹ said Hagrid solemnly, ʹten points ter Gryffindor. Now, 
Thestrals ‐ʹ 
ʹHem, hem.ʹ
Professor Umbridge had arrived. She was standing a few feet away from Harry, 
wearing her green hat and cloak again, her clipboard at the ready. Hagrid, who 
had never heard Umbridgeʹs fake cough before, was gazing in some concern at 
the closest Thestral, evidently under the impression that it had made the sound. 
ʹHem, hem.ʹ
ʹOh, hello!ʹ Hagrid said, smiling, having located the source of the noise. 
ʹYou received the note I sent to your cabin this morning?ʹ said Umbridge, in the 
same loud, slow voice she had used with him earlier, as though she were 
addressing somebody both foreign and very slow. Telling you that I would be 
inspecting your lesson?ʹ 
ʹOh, yeah,ʹ said Hagrid brightly. ʹGlad yeh found the place all righʹ! Well, as you 
can see ‐ or, I dunno ‐ can you? Weʹre doinʹ Thestrals today ‐ʹ 
ʹIʹm sorry?ʹ said Professor Umbridge loudly, cupping her hand around her ear 
and frowning. ʹWhat did you say?ʹ 
Hagrid looked a little confused. 
ʹEr ‐ Thestrals!ʹ he said loudly. ʹBig ‐ er ‐ winged horses, yeh know!ʹ 
He flapped his gigantic arms hopefully. Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows 
at him and muttered as she made a note on her clipboard: ʹHas… to… resort… 
to… crude… sign… language.ʹ 

ʹWell… anyway…ʺ said Hagrid, turning back to the class and looking slightly 
flustered, ʹerm… what was I sayinʹ?ʹ 
ʹAppears… to… have… poor… short… term… memory,ʹ muttered Umbridge, loudly 
enough for everyone to hear her. Draco Malfoy looked as though Christmas had 
come a month early; Hermione, on the other hand, had turned scarlet with 
suppressed rage. 
ʹOh, yeah,ʹ said Hagrid, throwing an uneasy glance at Umbridgeʹs clipboard, but 
ploughing on valiantly. ʹYeah, I was gonna tell yeh how come we got a herd. 
Yeah, so, we started off with a male anʹ five females. This one,ʹ he patted the first 
horse to have appeared, ʹname oʹ Tenebrus, heʹs my special favourite, firsʹ one 
born here in the Forest ‐ʹ 
ʹAre you aware,ʹ Umbridge said loudly, interrupting him, ʹthat the Ministry of 
Magic has classified Thestrals as ʺdangerousʺ?ʹ 
Harryʹs heart sank like a stone, but Hagrid merely chuckled. 
Thestrals arenʹ dangerous! All righʹ, they might take a bite outta yeh if yeh really 
annoy them ‐ʹ 
ʹShows… signs… of… pleasure… at… idea… of… violence,ʹ muttered Umbridge, 
scribbling on her clipboard again. 
ʹNo ‐ come on!ʹ said Hagrid, looking a little anxious now. ʹI mean, a dogʹll bite if 
yeh bait it, wonʹ it ‐ but Thestrals have jusʹ got a bad reputation because oʹ the 
death thing ‐ people used ter think they were bad omens, didnʹ they? Jusʹ didnʹ 
understand, did they?ʹ 
Umbridge did not answer; she finished writing her last note, then looked up at 
Hagrid and said, again very loudly and slowly, ʹPlease continue teaching as 
usual. I am going to walk,ʹ she mimed walking (Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson 
were having silent fits of laughter) ʹamong the studentsʹ (she pointed around at 
individual members of the class) ʹand ask them questions.ʹ She pointed at her 
mouth to indicate talking. 
Hagrid stared at her, clearly at a complete loss to understand why she was acting 
as though he did not understand normal English. Hermione had tears of fury in 
her eyes now. 

ʹYou hag, you evil hag!ʹ she whispered, as Umbridge walked towards Pansy 
Parkinson. ʹI know what youʹre doing, you awful, twisted, vicious ‐ʹ 
ʹErm… anyway,ʹ said Hagrid, clearly struggling to regain the flow of his lesson, 
ʹso ‐ Thestrals. Yeah. Well, thereʹs loads oʹ good stuff abouʹ them…ʹ 
ʹDo you find,ʹ said Professor Umbridge in a ringing voice to Pansy Parkinson, 
ʹthat you are able to understand Professor Hagrid when he talks?ʹ 
Just like Hermione, Pansy had tears in her eyes, but these were tears of laughter; 
indeed, her answer was almost incoherent because she was trying to suppress 
her giggles. 
ʹNo… because… well… it sounds… like grunting a lot of the time 
Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard. The few unbruised bits of Hagridʹs face 
flushed, but he tried to act as though he had not heard Pansyʹs answer. 
ʹEr… yeah… good stuff abouʹ Thestrals. Well, once theyʹre tamed, like this lot, 
yehʹll never be lost again. ʹMazinʹ sense oʹ direction, jusʹ tell ʹem where yeh want 
ter go ‐ʹ 
ʹAssuming they can understand you, of course,ʹ said Malfoy loudly, and Pansy 
Parkinson collapsed in a fit of renewed giggles. Professor Umbridge smiled 
indulgently at them and then turned to Neville. 
ʹYou can see the Thestrals, Longbottom, can you?ʹ she said. 
Neville nodded. 
ʹWho did you see die?ʹ she asked, her tone indifferent. 
ʹMy… my grandad,ʹ said Neville. 
ʹAnd what do you think of them?ʹ she said, waving her stubby hand at the 
horses, who by now had stripped a great deal of the carcass down to bone. 
ʹErm,ʹ said Neville nervously, with a glance at Hagrid. Well, theyʹre… er… 
OK…ʺ 

ʹStudents… are… too… intimidated… to… admit… they… are… frightened,ʹ muttered 
Umbridge, making another note on her clipboard. 
ʹNo!ʹ said Neville, looking upset. ʹNo, Iʹm not scared of them!ʹ 
ʹItʹs quite all right,ʹ said Umbridge, patting Neville on the shoulder with what she 
evidently intended to be an understanding smile, though it looked more like a 
leer to Harry. ʹWell, Hagrid,ʹ she turned to look up at him again, speaking once 
more in that loud, slow voice, ʹI think Iʹve got enough to be getting along with. 
You will receiveʹ (she mimed taking something from the air in front of her) ʹthe 
results of your inspectionʹ (she pointed at the clipboard) ʹin ten daysʹ time.ʹ She 
held up ten stubby little fingers, then, her smile wider and more toadlike than 
ever before beneath her green hat, she bustled from their midst, leaving Malfoy 
and Pansy Parkinson in fits of laughter, Hermione actually shaking with fury 
and Neville looking confused and upset. 
That foul, lying, twisting old gargoyle!ʹ stormed Hermione half an hour later, as 
they made their way back up to the castle through the channels they had made 
earlier in the snow. ʹYou see what sheʹs up to? Itʹs her thing about half‐breeds all 
over again ‐ sheʹs trying to make out Hagridʹs some kind of dimwitted troll, just 
because he had a giantess for a mother ‐ and oh, itʹs not fair, that really wasnʹt a 
bad lesson at all ‐ I mean, all right, if it had been Blast‐Ended Skrewts again, but 
Thestrals are fine ‐ in fact, for Hagrid, theyʹre really good!ʹ 
ʹUmbridge said theyʹre dangerous,ʹ said Ron. 
ʹWell, itʹs like Hagrid said, they can look after themselves,ʹ said Hermione 
impatiently, ʹand 1 suppose a teacher like Grubbly‐Plank wouldnʹt usually show 
them to us before NEWT level, but, well, they are very interesting, arenʹt they? 
The way some people can see them and some canʹt! 1 wish 1 could.ʹ 
ʹDo you?ʹ Harry asked her quietly. 
She looked suddenly horrorstruck. 
ʹOh, Harry ‐ Iʹm sorry ‐ no, of course I donʹt ‐ that was a really stupid thing to 
say.ʹ 
ʹItʹs OK,ʹ he said quickly, ʹdonʹt worryʹ 
ʹIʹm surprised so many people could see them,ʹ said Ron. Three in a class ‐ʹ 

ʹYeah, Weasley, we were just wondering,ʹ said a malicious voice. Unheard by any 
of them in the muffling snow, Malfoy, Crabbe and Goyle were walking along 
right behind them. ʹDʹyou reckon if you saw someone snuff it youʹd be able to see 
the Quaffle better?ʹ 
He, Crabbe and Goyle roared with laughter as they pushed past on their way to 
the castle, then broke into a chorus of ʹWeasley is our Kingʹ. Ronʹs ears turned 
scarlet. 
ʹIgnore them, just ignore them,ʹ intoned Hermione, pulling out her wand and 
performing the charm to produce hot air again, so that she could melt them an 
easier path through the untouched snow between them and the greenhouses. 
* 
December arrived, bringing with it more snow and a positive avalanche of 
homework for the fifth‐years. Ron and Hermioneʹs prefect duties also became 
more and more onerous as Christmas approached. They were called upon to 
supervise the decoration of the castle (ʹYou try putting up tinsel when Peeves has 
got the other end and is trying to strangle you with it,ʹ said Ron), to watch over 
first‐ and second‐years spending their break‐times inside because of the bitter 
cold (ʹAnd theyʹre cheeky little snot‐rags, you know, we definitely werenʹt that 
rude when we were in first year,ʹ said Ron) and to patrol the corridors in shifts 
with Argus Filch, who suspected that the holiday spirit might show itself in an 
outbreak of wizard duels (ʹHeʹs got dung for brains, that one,ʹ said Ron 
furiously). They were so busy that Hermione had even stopped knitting elf hats 
and was fretting that she was down to her last three. 
ʹAll those poor elves I havenʹt set free yet, having to stay here over Christmas 
because there arenʹt enough hats!ʹ 
Harry, who had not had the heart to tell her that Dobby was taking everything 
she made, bent lower over his History of Magic essay. In any case, he did not 
want to think about Christmas. For the first time in his school career, he very 
much wanted to spend the holidays away from Hogwarts. Between his 
Quidditch ban and worry about whether or not Hagrid was going to be put on 
probation, he felt highly resentful towards the place at the moment. The only 
thing he really looked forward to were the DA meetings, and they would have to 
stop over the holidays, as nearly everybody in the DA would be spending the 
time with their families. Hermione was going skiing with her parents, something 

that greatly amused Ron, who had never heard of Muggles strapping narrow 
strips of wood on to their feet to slide down mountains. Ron was going home to 
The Burrow. Harry endured several days of envy before Ron said, in response to 
Harry asking him how he was going to get home for Christmas: ʹBut youʹre 
coming too! Didnʹt I say? Mum wrote and told me to invite you weeks ago!ʹ 
Hermione rolled her eyes, but Harryʹs spirits soared: the thought of Christmas at 
The Burrow was truly wonderful, though slightly marred by Harryʹs guilty 
feeling that he would not be able to spend the holiday with Sirius. He wondered 
whether he could possibly persuade Mrs Weasley to invite his godfather for the 
festivities. Even though he doubted whether Dumbledore would permit Sirius to 
leave Grimmauld Place anyway, he could not help but think Mrs Weasley might 
not want him; they were so often at loggerheads. Sirius had not contacted Harry 
at all since his last appearance in the fire, and although Harry knew that with 
Umbridge on constant watch it would be unwise to attempt to contact him, he 
did not like to think of Sirius alone in his motherʹs old house, perhaps pulling a 
lonely cracker with Kreacher. 
Harry arrived early in the Room of Requirement for the last DA meeting before 
the holidays and was very glad he had, because when the torches burst into 
flame he saw that Dobby had taken it upon himself to decorate the place for 
Christmas. He could tell the elf had done it, because nobody else would have 
strung a hundred golden baubles from the ceiling, each showing a picture of 
Harryʹs face and bearing the legend: ʹHAVE A VERY HARRY CHRISTMAS!ʹ 
Harry had only just managed to get the last of them down before the door 
creaked open and Luna Love good entered, looking as dreamy as usual. 
ʹHello,ʹ she said vaguely, looking around at what remained of the decorations. 
These are nice, did you put them up?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry, ʹit was Dobby the house‐elf.ʹ 
ʹMistletoe,ʹ said Luna dreamily, pointing at a large clump of white berries placed 
almost over Harryʹs head. He jumped out from under it. ʹGood thinking,ʹ said 
Luna very seriously. ʹItʹs often infested with Nargles.ʹ 
Harry was saved the necessity of asking what Nargles are by the arrival of 
Angelina, Katie and Alicia. All three of them were breathless and looked very 
cold. 

ʹWell,ʹ said Angelina dully, pulling off her cloak and throwing it into a corner, 
ʹweʹve finally replaced you.ʹ 
ʹReplaced me?ʹ said Harry blankly. 
ʹYou and Fred and George,ʹ she said impatiently. ʹWeʹve got another Seeker!ʹ 
ʹWho?ʹ said Harry quickly. 
ʹGinny Weasley,ʹ said Katie. 
Harry gaped at her. 
ʹYeah, I know,ʹ said Angelina, pulling out her wand and flexing her arm, ʹbut 
sheʹs pretty good, actually. Nothing on you, of course,ʹ she said, throwing him a 
very dirty look, ʹbut as we canʹt have you…ʹ 
Harry bit back the retort he was longing to utter: did she imagine for a second 
that he did not regret his expulsion from the team a hundred times more than 
she did? 
ʹAnd what about the Beaters?ʹ he asked, trying to keep his voice even. 
ʹAndrew Kirke,ʹ said Alicia without enthusiasm, ʹand Jack Sloper. Neither of 
them are brilliant, but compared to the rest of the idiots who turned up…ʹ 
The arrival of Ron, Hermione and Neville brought this depressing discussion to 
an end, and within five minutes the room was full enough to prevent Harry 
seeing Angelinaʹs burning, reproachful looks. 
ʹOK,ʹ he said, calling them all to order. ʹI thought this evening we should just go 
over the things weʹve done so far, because itʹs the last meeting before the 
holidays and thereʹs no point starting anything new right before a three‐week 
break ‐ʹ 
ʹWeʹre not doing anything new?ʹ said Zacharias Smith, in a disgruntled whisper 
loud enough to carry through the room. ʹIf Iʹd known that, I wouldnʹt have 
come.ʹ 
ʹWeʹre all really sorry Harry didnʹt tell you, then,ʹ said Fred loudly. 

Several people sniggered. Harry saw Cho laughing and felt the familiar 
swooping sensation in his stomach, as though he had missed a step going 
downstairs. 
ʹ‐ we can practise in pairs,ʹ said Harry. Weʹll start with the Impediment Jinx, for 
ten minutes, then we can get out the cushions and try Stunning again.ʹ 
They all divided up obediently; Harry partnered Neville as usual. The room was 
soon full of intermittent cries of ʹImpedimenta! ʹPeople froze for a minute or so, 
during which their partner would stare aimlessly around the room watching 
other pairs at work, then would unfreeze and take their turn at the jinx. 
Neville had improved beyond all recognition. After a while, when Harry had 
unfrozen three times in a row, he had Neville join Ron and Hermione again so 
that he could walk around the room and watch the others. When he passed Cho 
she beamed at him; he resisted the temptation to walk past her several more 
times. 
After ten minutes on the Impediment Jinx, they laid out cushions all over the 
floor and started practising Stunning again. Space was really too confined to 
allow them all to work this spell at once; half the group observed the others for a 
while, then swapped over. 
Harry felt himself positively swelling with pride as he watched them all. True, 
Neville did Stun Padma Patil rather than Dean, at whom he had been aiming, but 
it was a much closer miss than usual, and everybody else had made enormous 
progress. 
At the end of an hour, Harry called a halt. 
ʹYouʹre getting really good,ʹ he said, beaming around at them. ʹWhen we get back 
from the holidays we can start doing some of the big stuff ‐ maybe even 
Patronuses.ʹ 
There was a murmur of excitement. The room began to clear in the usual twos 
and threes; most people wished Harry a ʹHappy Christmasʹ as they went. Feeling 
cheerful, he collected up the cushions with Ron and Hermione and stacked them 
neatly away. Ron and Hermione left before he did; he hung back a little, because 
Cho was still there and he was hoping to receive a ʹMerry Christmasʹ from her. 

ʹNo, you go on,ʹ he heard her say to her friend Marietta and his heart gave a jolt 
that seemed to take it into the region of his Adamʹs apple. 
He pretended to be straightening the cushion pile. He was quite sure they were 
alone now and waited tor her to speak. Instead, he heard a hearty sniff. 
He turned and saw Cho standing in the middle of the room, tears pouring down 
her face. 
ʹWha—?ʹ 
He didnʹt know what to do. She was simply standing there, crying silently. 
ʹWhatʹs up?ʹ he said, feebly. 
She shook her head and wiped her eyes on her sleeve. 
ʹIʹm ‐ sorry,ʹ she said thickly. ʹI suppose… itʹs just… learning all this stuff… it just 
makes me… wonder whether… if heʹd known it all… heʹd still be alive.ʹ 
Harryʹs heart sank right back past its usual spot and settled somewhere around 
his navel. He ought to have known. She wanted to talk about Cedric. 
ʹHe did know this stuff,ʹ Harry said heavily. ʹHe was really good at it, or he could 
never have got to the middle of that maze. But if Voldemort really wants to kill 
you, you donʹt stand a chance.ʹ 
She hiccoughed at the sound of Voldemortʹs name, but stared at Harry without 
flinching. 
ʹYou survived when you were just a baby,ʹ she said quietly. 
ʹYeah, well,ʹ said Harry wearily, moving towards the door, ʹI dunno why nor 
does anyone else, so itʹs nothing to be proud of.ʹ 
ʹOh, donʹt go!ʹ said Cho, sounding tearful again. ʹIʹm really sorry to get all upset 
like this… I didnʹt mean to…ʹ 
She hiccoughed again. She was very pretty even when her eyes were red and 
puffy. Harry felt thoroughly miserable. Heʹd have been so pleased with just a 
ʹMerry Christmasʹ. 

ʹI know it must be horrible for you,ʹ she said, mopping her eyes on her sleeve 
again. ʹMe mentioning Cedric, when you saw him die… I suppose you just want 
to forget about it?ʹ 
Harry did not say anything to this; it was quite true, but he felt heartless saying 
it. 
ʹYouʹre a r‐really good teacher, you know,ʹ said Cho, with a watery smile. ʹIʹve 
never been able to Stun anything before.ʹ 
Thanks,ʹ said Harry awkwardly. 
They looked at each other for a long moment. Harry felt a burning desire to run 
from the room and, at the same time, a complete inability to move his feet. 
ʹMistletoe,ʹ said Cho quietly, pointing at the ceiling over his head. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry. His mouth was very dry. ʹItʹs probably full of Nargles, 
though.ʹ 
ʹWhat are Nargles?ʹ 
ʹNo idea,ʹ said Harry. She had moved closer. His brain seemed to have been 
Stunned. ʹYouʹd have to ask Loony. Luna, I mean.ʹ 
Cho made a funny noise halfway between a sob and a laugh. She was even 
nearer to him now. He could have counted the freckles on her nose. 
ʹI really like you, Harry.ʹ 
He could not think. A tingling sensation was spreading through him, paralysing 
his arms, legs and brain. 
She was much too close. He could see every tear clinging to her eyelashes… 
He returned to the common room half an hour later to find Hermione and Ron in 
the best seats by the fire; nearly everybody else had gone to bed. Hermione was 
writing a very long letter; she had already filled half a roll of parchment, which 
was dangling from the edge of the table. Ron was lying on the hearthrug, trying 
to finish his Transfiguration homework. 

ʹWhat kept you?ʹ he asked, as Harry sank into the armchair next to Hermioneʹs. 
Harry didnʹt answer. He was in a state of shock. Half of him wanted to tell Ron 
and Hermione what had just happened, but the other half wanted to take the 
secret with him to the grave. 
ʹAre you all right, Harry?ʹ Hermione asked, peering at him over the tip of her 
quill. 
Harry gave a half‐hearted shrug. In truth, he didnʹt know whether he was all 
right or not. ʹWhatʹs up?ʹ said Ron, hoisting himself up on his elbow to get a 
clearer view of Harry. ʹWhatʹs happened?ʹ 
Harry didnʹt quite know how to set about telling them, and still wasnʹt sure 
whether he wanted to. Just as he had decided not to say anything, Hermione 
took matters out of his hands. 
ʹIs it Cho?ʹ she asked in a businesslike way. ʹDid she corner you after the 
meeting?ʹ 
Numbly surprised, Harry nodded. Ron sniggered, breaking off when Hermione 
caught his eye. 
ʹSo ‐ er ‐ what did she want?ʹ he asked in a mock casual voice. 
ʹShe ‐ʹ Harry began, rather hoarsely; he cleared his throat and tried again. ʹShe ‐ 
er ‐ʹ 
ʹDid you kiss?ʹ asked Hermione briskly. 
Ron sat up so fast he sent his ink bottle flying all over the rug. Disregarding this 
completely, he stared avidly at Harry. 
ʹWell?ʹ he demanded. 
Harry looked from Ronʹs expression of mingled curiosity and hilarity to 
Hermioneʹs slight frown, and nodded. 
ʹHA!ʹ 

Ron made a triumphant gesture with his fist and went into a raucous peal of 
laughter that made several timid‐looking second‐years over beside the window 
jump. A reluctant grin spread over Harryʹs face as he watched Ron rolling 
around on the hearthrug. 
Hermione gave Ron a look of deep disgust and returned to her letter. 
ʹWell?ʹ Ron said finally, looking up at Harry. ʹHow was it?ʹ 
Harry considered for a moment. 
ʹWet,ʹ he said truthfully. 
Ron made a noise that might have indicated jubilation or disgust, it was hard to 
tell. 
ʹBecause she was crying,ʹ Harry continued heavily. 
ʹOh,ʹ said Ron, his smile fading slightly. ʹAre you that bad at kissing?ʹ 
ʹDunno,ʹ said Harry, who hadnʹt considered this, and immediately felt rather 
worried. ʹMaybe I am.ʹ 
ʹOf course youʹre not,ʹ said Hermione absently, still scribbling away at her letter. 
ʹHow do you know?ʹ said Ron very sharply. 
ʹBecause Cho spends half her time crying these days,ʹ said Hermione vaguely. 
ʹShe does it at mealtimes, in the loos, all over the place.ʹ 
ʹYouʹd think a bit of kissing would cheer her up,ʹ said Ron, grinning. 
ʹRon,ʹ said Hermione in a dignified voice, dipping the point of her quill into her 
inkpot, ʹyou are the most insensitive wart I have ever had the misfortune to 
meet.ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs that supposed to mean?ʹ said Ron indignantly. ʹWhat sort of person cries 
while someoneʹs kissing them?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, slightly desperately, ʹwho does?ʹ 

Hermione looked at the pair of them with an almost pitying expression on her 
face. 
ʹDonʹt you understand how Choʹs feeling at the moment?ʹ she asked. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry and Ron together. 
Hermione sighed and laid down her quill. 
ʹWell, obviously, sheʹs feeling very sad, because of Cedric dying. Then I expect 
sheʹs feeling confused because she liked Cedric and now she likes Harry, and she 
canʹt work out who she likes best. Then sheʹll be feeling guilty, thinking itʹs an 
insult to Cedricʹs memory to be kissing Harry at all, and sheʹll be worrying about 
what everyone else might say about her if she starts going out with Harry. And 
she probably canʹt work out what her feelings towards Harry are, anyway, 
because he was the one who was with Cedric when Cedric died, so thatʹs all very 
mixed up and painful. Oh, and sheʹs afraid sheʹs going to be thrown off the 
Ravenclaw Quidditch team because sheʹs been flying so badly.ʹ 
A slightly stunned silence greeted the end of this speech, then Ron said, ʹOne 
person canʹt feel all that at once, theyʹd explode.ʹ 
ʹJust because youʹve got the emotional range of a teaspoon doesnʹt mean we all 
have,ʹ said Hermione nastily picking up her quill again. 
ʹShe was the one who started it,ʹ said Harry. ʹI wouldnʹtVe ‐ she just sort of came 
at me ‐ and next thing sheʹs crying all over me ‐ I didnʹt know what to do —ʹ 
ʹDonʹt blame you, mate,ʹ said Ron, looking alarmed at the very thought. 
ʹYou just had to be nice to her,ʹ said Hermione, looking up anxiously. ʹYou were, 
werenʹt you?ʹ 
ʹWell,ʹ said Harry, an unpleasant heat creeping up his face, ʹI sort of ‐ patted her 
on the back a bit.ʹ 
Hermione looked as though she was restraining herself from rolling her eyes 
with extreme difficulty. 
ʹWell, 1 suppose it could have been worse,ʹ she said. ʹAre you going to see her 
again?ʹ 

Til have to, wonʹt I?ʹ said Harry. ʹWeʹve got DA meetings, havenʹt we?ʹ 
ʹYou know what I mean,ʹ said Hermione impatiently. 
Harry said nothing. Hermioneʹs words opened up a whole new vista of 
frightening possibilities. He tried to imagine going somewhere with Cho — 
Hogsmeade, perhaps ‐ and being alone with her for hours at a time. Of course, 
she would have been expecting him to ask her out after what had just 
happened… the thought made his stomach clench painfully. 
ʹOh well,ʹ said Hermione distantly, buried in her letter once more, ʹyouʹll have 
plenty of opportunities to ask her.ʹ 
ʹWhat if he doesnʹt want to ask her?ʹ said Ron, who had been watching Harry 
with an unusually shrewd expression on his face. 
ʹDonʹt be silly,ʹ said Hermione vaguely, ʹHarryʹs liked her for ages, havenʹt you, 
Harry?ʹ 
He did not answer. Yes, he had liked Cho for ages, but whenever he had 
imagined a scene involving the two of them it had always featured a Cho who 
was enjoying herself, as opposed to a Cho who was sobbing uncontrollably into 
his shoulder. 
ʹWhoʹre you writing the novel to, anyway?ʹ Ron asked Hermione, trying to read 
the bit of parchment now trailing on the floor. Hermione hitched it up out of 
sight. 
ʹViktor.ʹ 
ʹKrum?ʹ
ʹHow many other Viktors do we know?ʹ 
Ron said nothing, but looked disgruntled. They sat in silence for another twenty 
minutes, Ron finishing his Transfiguration essay with many snorts of impatience 
and crossings‐out, Hermione writing steadily to the very end of the parchment, 
rolling it up carefully and sealing it, and Harry staring into the fire, wishing 
more than anything that Siriusʹs head would appear there and give him some 
advice about girls. But the fire merely crackled lower and lower, until the red‐hot 

embers crumbled into ash and, looking around, Harry saw that they were, yet 
again, the last ones in the common room. 
ʹWell, night,ʹ said Hermione, yawning widely as she set olf up the girlsʹ staircase. 
ʹWhat does she see in Krum?ʹ Ron demanded, as he and Harry climbed the boysʹ 
stairs. 
ʹWell,ʹ said Harry, considering the matter, ʹIʹsʹpose heʹs older, isnʹt he… and heʹs 
an international Quidditch player…ʹ 
ʹYeah, but apart from that,ʹ said Ron, sounding aggravated. ʹI mean, heʹs a 
grouchy git, isnʹt he?ʹ 
ʹBit grouchy, yeah,ʹ said Harry, whose thoughts were still on Cho. 
They pulled off their robes and put on pyjamas in silence; Dean, Seamus and 
Neville were already asleep. Harry put his glasses on his bedside table and got 
into bed but did not pull the hangings closed around his four‐poster; instead, he 
stared at the patch of starry sky visible through the window next to Nevilleʹs 
bed. If he had known, this time last night, that in twenty‐four hoursʹ time he 
would have kissed Cho Chang… 
ʹNight,ʹ grunted Ron, from somewhere to his right. 
ʹNight,ʹ said Harry. 
Maybe next time… if there was a next time… sheʹd be a bit happier. He ought to 
have asked her out; she had probably been expecting it and was now really 
angry with him… or was she lying in bed, still crying about Cedric? He did not 
know what to think. Hermioneʹs explanation had made it all seem more 
complicated rather than easier to understand. 
Thatʹs what they should teach us here, he thought, turning over on to his side, how 
girlsʹ brains work… itʹd be more useful than Divination, anyway… 
Neville snuffled in his sleep. An owl hooted somewhere out in the night. 
Harry dreamed he was back in the DA room. Cho was accusing him of luring her 
there under false pretences; she said he had promised her a hundred and fifty 
Chocolate Frog Cards if she showed up. Harry protested… Cho shouted, 

ʹCedricgave me loads of Chocolate Frog Cards, look!ʹ And she pulled out fistfuls of 
Cards from inside her robes and threw them into the air. Then she turned into 
Hermione, who said, ʹYou did promise her, you know, Harry… I think youʹd better 
give her something else instead… how about your Firebolt?ʹ And Harry was protesting 
that he could not give Cho his Firebolt, because Umbridge had it, and anyway 
the whole thing was ridiculous, heʹd only come to the DA room to put up some 
Christmas baubles shaped like Dobbyʹs head… 
The dream changed… 
His body felt smooth, powerful and flexible. He was gliding between shining 
metal bars, across dark, cold stone… he was flat against the floor, sliding along 
on his belly… it was dark, yet he could see objects around him shimmering in 
strange, vibrant colours… he was turning his head… at first glance the corridor 
was empty… but no… a man was sitting on the floor ahead, his chin drooping on 
to his chest, his outline gleaming in the dark… 
Harry put out his tongue… he tasted the manʹs scent on the air… he was alive 
but drowsy… sitting in front of a door at the end of the corridor… 

 
Harry longed to bite the man… but he must master the impulse… he had more 
important work to do… 
But the man was stirring… a silver Cloak fell from his legs as he jumped to his 
feet; and Harry saw his vibrant, blurred outline towering above him, saw a wand 
withdrawn from a belt… he had no choice… he reared high from the floor and 
struck once, twice, three times, plunging his fangs deeply into the manʹs flesh, 
feeling his ribs splinter beneath his jaws, feeling the warm gush of blood… 
The man was yelling in pain… then he fell silent… he slumped backwards 
against the wall… blood was splattering on to the floor… 
His forehead hurt terribly… it was aching fit to burst… 

ʹHarry! HARRY!ʹ 
He opened his eyes. Every inch of his body was covered in icy sweat; his bed 
covers were twisted all around him like a strait‐jacket; he felt as though a white‐
hot poker were being applied to his forehead. 
ʹHarry!ʹ
Ron was standing over him looking extremely frightened. There were more 
figures at the foot of Harryʹs bed. He clutched his head in his hands; the pain was 
blinding him… he rolled right over and vomited over the edge of the mattress. 
ʹHeʹs really ill,ʹ said a scared voice. ʹShould we call someone?ʹ 
ʹHarry! Harry!ʹ 
He had to tell Ron, it was very important that he tell him… taking great gulps of 
air, Harry pushed himself up in bed, willing himself not to throw up again, the 
pain half‐blinding him. 
ʹYour dad,ʹ he panted, his chest heaving. ʹYour dadʹs… been attacked…ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Ron uncomprehendingly. 
ʹYour dad! Heʹs been bitten, itʹs serious, there was blood everywhere…ʺ 
ʹIʹm going for help,ʹ said the same scared voice, and Harry heard footsteps 
running out of the dormitory. 
ʹHarry, mate,ʹ said Ron uncertainly, ʹyou… you were just dreaming…ʹ 
ʹNo!ʹ said Harry furiously; it was crucial that Ron understand. 
ʹIt wasnʹt a dream… not an ordinary dream… I was there, I saw it… I did it…ʹ 
He could hear Seamus and Dean muttering but did not care. The pain in his 
forehead was subsiding slightly, though he was still sweating and shivering 
feverishly. He retched again and Ron leapt backwards out of the way. 
ʹHarry, youʹre not well,ʹ he said shakily. ʹNevilleʹs gone for help.ʹ 

ʹIʹm fine!ʹ Harry choked, wiping his mouth on his pyjamas and shaking 
uncontrollably. Thereʹs nothing wrong with me, itʹs your dad youʹve got to 
worry about ‐ we need to find out where he is ‐ heʹs bleeding like mad ‐ I was ‐ it 
was a huge snake.ʹ 
He tried to get out of bed but Ron pushed him back into it; Dean and Seamus 
were still whispering somewhere nearby. Whether one minute passed or ten, 
Harry did not know; he simply sat there shaking, feeling the pain recede very 
slowly from his scar… then there were hurried footsteps coming up the stairs 
and he heard Nevilleʹs voice again. 
ʹOver here, Professor.ʹ 
Professor McGonagall came hurrying into the dormitory in her tartan dressing 
gown, her glasses perched lopsidedly on the bridge of her bony nose. 
ʹWhat is it, Potter? Where does it hurt?ʹ 
He had never been so pleased to see her; it was a member of the Order of the 
Phoenix he needed now, not someone fussing over him and prescribing useless 
potions. 
ʹItʹs Ronʹs dad,ʹ he said, sitting up again. ʹHeʹs been attacked by a snake and itʹs 
serious, I saw it happen.ʹ 
ʹWhat do you mean, you saw it happen?ʹ said Professor McGonagall, her dark 
eyebrows contracting. 
ʹI donʹt know… I was asleep and then I was there…ʹ 
ʹYou mean you dreamed this?ʹ 
ʹNo!ʹ said Harry angrily; would none of them understand? ʹI was having a dream 
at first about something completely different, something stupid… and then this 
interrupted it. It was real, I didnʹt imagine it. Mr Weasley was asleep on the floor 
and he was attacked by a gigantic snake, there was a load of blood, he collapsed, 
someoneʹs got to find out where he is…ʹ 
Professor McGonagall was gazing at him through her lopsided spectacles as 
though horrified at what she was seeing. 

ʹIʹm not lying and Iʹm not mad!ʹ Harry told her, his voice rising to a shout. ʹI tell 
you, I saw it happen!ʹ 
ʹI believe you, Potter,ʹ said Professor McGonagall curtly. ʹPut on your dressing 
gown ‐ weʹre going to see the Headmaster.ʹ 
— CHAPTER TWENTY‐TWO — 
St Mungoʹs Hospital
for Magical Maladies
and Injuries
Harry was so relieved she was taking him seriously that he did not hesitate, but 
jumped out of bed at once, pulled on his dressing gown and pushed his glasses 
back on to his nose. 
ʹWeasley, you ought to come too,ʹ said Professor McGonagall. 
They followed Professor McGonagall past the silent figures of Neville, Dean and 
Seamus, out of the dormitory, down the spiral stairs into the common room, 
through the portrait hole and off along the Fat Ladyʹs moonlit corridor. Harry 
felt as though the panic inside him might spill over at any moment; he wanted to 
run, to yell for Dumbledore; Mr Weasley was bleeding as they walked along so 
sedately, and what if those fangs (Harry tried hard not to think ʹmy fangsʹ) had 
been poisonous? They passed Mrs Norris, who turned her lamplike eyes upon 
them and hissed faintly, but Professor McGonagall said, ʹShoo!ʹ Mrs Norris slunk 
away into the shadows, and in a few minutes they had reached the stone 
gargoyle guarding the entrance to Dumbledoreʹs office. 
ʹFizzing Whizzbee,ʹ said Professor McGonagall. 
The gargoyle sprang to life and leapt aside; the wall behind it split in two to 
reveal a stone staircase that was moving continually upwards like a spiral 
escalator. The three of them stepped on to the moving stairs; the wall closed 
behind them with a thud and they were moving upwards in tight circles until 
they reached the highly polished oak door with the brass knocker shaped like a 
griffin. 

Though it was now well past midnight there were voices coming from inside the 
room, a positive babble of them. It sounded as though Dumbledore was 
entertaining at least a dozen people. 
Professor McGonagall rapped three times with the griffin knocker and the voices 
ceased abruptly as though someone had switched them all off. The door opened 
of its own accord and Professor McGonagall led Harry and Ron inside. 
The room was in half‐darkness; the strange silver instruments standing on tables 
were silent and still rather than whirring and emitting puffs of smoke as they 
usually did; the portraits of old headmasters and headmistresses covering the 
walls were all snoozing in their frames. Behind the door, a magnificent red and 
gold bird the size of a swan dozed on its perch with its head under its wing. 
ʹOh, itʹs you, Professor McGonagall… and… ah.ʹ 
Dumbledore was sitting in a high‐backed chair behind his desk; he leaned 
forward into the pool of candlelight illuminating the papers laid out before him. 
He was wearing a magnificently embroidered purple and gold dressing gown 
over a snowy white nightshirt, but seemed wide‐awake, his penetrating light 
blue eyes fixed intently upon Professor McGonagall. 
ʹProfessor Dumbledore, Potter has had a… well, a nightmare,ʹ said Professor 
McGonagall. ʹHe says…ʹ 
ʹIt wasnʹt a nightmare,ʹ said Harry quickly. 
Professor McGonagall looked round at Harry, frowning slightly. 
ʹVery well, then, Potter, you tell the Headmaster about it.ʹ 
ʹI… well, I was asleep…ʹ said Harry and, even in his terror and his desperation to 
make Dumbledore understand, he felt slightly irritated that the Headmaster was 
not looking at him, but examining his own interlocked fingers. ʹBut it wasnʹt an 
ordinary dream… it was real… I saw it happen…ʹ He took a deep breath, ʹRonʹs 
dad ‐ Mr Weasley ‐ has been attacked by a giant snake.ʹ 
The words seemed to reverberate in the air after he had said them, sounding 
slightly ridiculous, even comic. There was a pause in which Dumbledore leaned 
back and stared meditatively at the ceiling. Ron looked from Harry to 
Dumbledore, white‐faced and shocked. 

ʹHow did you see this?ʹ Dumbledore asked quietly, still not looking at Harry. 
ʹWell… I donʹt know,ʹ said Harry, rather angrily ‐ what did it matter? ʹInside my 
head, I suppose ‐ʹ 
ʹYou misunderstand me,ʹ said Dumbledore, still in the same calm tone. ʹI mean… 
can you remember — er ‐ where you were positioned as you watched this attack 
happen? Were you perhaps standing beside the victim, or else looking down on 
the scene from above?ʹ 
This was such a curious question that Harry gaped at Dumbledore; it was almost 
as though he knew… 
ʹI was the snake,ʹ he said. ʹI saw it all from the snakeʹs point of view.ʹ 
Nobody else spoke for a moment, then Dumbledore, now looking at Ron who 
was still whey‐faced, asked in a new and sharper voice, ʹIs Arthur seriously 
injured?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry emphatically ‐ why were they all so slow on the uptake, did 
they not realise how much a person bled when fangs that long pierced their side? 
And why could Dumbledore not do him the courtesy of looking at him? 
But Dumbledore stood up, so quickly it made Harry jump, and addressed one of 
the old portraits hanging very near the ceiling. ʹEverard?ʹ he said sharply. ʹAnd 
you too, Dilys!ʹ 
A sallow‐faced wizard with a short black fringe and an elderly witch with long 
silver ringlets in the frame beside him, both of whom seemed to have been in the 
deepest of sleeps, opened their eyes immediately. 
ʹYou were listening?ʹ said Dumbledore. 
The wizard nodded; the witch said, ʹNaturally.ʹ 
The man has red hair and glasses,ʹ said Dumbledore. ʹEverard, you will need to 
raise the alarm, make sure he is found by the right people ‐ʹ 
Both nodded and moved sideways out of their frames, but instead of emerging 
in neighbouring pictures (as usually happened at Hogwarts) neither reappeared. 
One frame now contained nothing but a backdrop of dark curtain, the other a 

handsome leather armchair. Harry noticed that many of the other headmasters 
and mistresses on the walls, though snoring and drooling most convincingly, 
kept sneaking peeks at him from under their eyelids, and he suddenly 
understood who had been talking when they had knocked. 
ʹEverard and Dilys were two of Hogwartsʹs most celebrated Heads,ʹ Dumbledore 
said, now sweeping around Harry, Ron and Professor McGonagall to approach 
the magnificent sleeping bird on his perch beside the door. Their renown is such 
that both have portraits hanging in other important wizarding institutions. As 
they are free to move between their own portraits, they can tell us what may be 
happening elsewhere…ʺ 
ʹBut Mr Weasley could be anywhere!ʹ said Harry. 
ʹPlease sit down, all three of you,ʹ said Dumbledore, as though Harry had not 
spoken, ʹEverard and Dilys may not be back for several minutes. Professor 
McGonagall, if you could draw up extra chairs.ʹ 
Professor McGonagall pulled her wand from the pocket of her dressing gown 
and waved it; three chairs appeared out of thin air, straight‐backed and wooden, 
quite unlike the comfortable chintz armchairs that Dumbledore had conjured up 
at Harryʹs hearing. Harry sat down, watching Dumbledore over his shoulder. 
Dumbledore was now stroking Fawkesʹs plumed golden head with one finger. 
The phoenix awoke immediately. He stretched his beautiful head high and 
observed Dumbledore through bright, dark eyes. 
ʹWe will need,ʹ Dumbledore said very quietly to the bird, ʹa warning.ʹ 
There was a flash of fire and the phoenix had gone. 
Dumbledore now swooped down upon one of the fragile silver instruments 
whose function Harry had never known, carried it over to his desk, sat down 
facing them again and tapped it gently with the tip of his wand. 
The instrument tinkled into life at once with rhythmic clinking noises. Tiny puffs 
of pale green smoke issued from the minuscule silver tube at the top. 
Dumbledore watched the smoke closely, his brow furrowed. After a few seconds, 
the tiny puffs became a steady stream of smoke that thickened and coiled in the 
air… a serpentʹs head grew out of the end of it, opening its mouth wide. Harry 
wondered whether the instrument was confirming his story: he looked eagerly at 
Dumbledore for a sign that he was right, but Dumbledore did not look up. 

ʹNaturally, naturally,ʹ murmured Dumbledore apparently to himself, still 
observing the stream of smoke without the slightest sign of surprise. ʹBut in 
essence divided?ʹ 
Harry could make neither head nor tail of this question. The smoke serpent, 
however, split itself instantly into two snakes, both coiling and undulating in the 
dark air. With a look of grim satisfaction, Dumbledore gave the instrument 
another gentle tap with his wand: the clinking noise slowed and died and the 
smoke serpents grew faint, became a formless haze and vanished. 
Dumbledore replaced the instrument on its spindly little table. Harry saw many 
of the old headmasters in the portraits follow him with their eyes, then, realising 
that Harry was watching them, hastily pretend to be sleeping again. Harry 
wanted to ask what the strange silver instrument was for, but before he could do 
so, there was a shout from the top of the wall to their right; the wizard called 
Everard had reappeared in his portrait, panting slightly. 
ʹDumbledore!ʹ 
ʹWhat news?ʹ said Dumbledore at once. 
ʹI yelled until someone came running,ʹ said the wizard, who was mopping his 
brow on the curtain behind him, ʹsaid Iʹd heard something moving downstairs ‐ 
they werenʹt sure whether to believe me but went down to check ‐ you know 
there are no portraits down there to watch from. Anyway, they carried him up a 
few minutes later. He doesnʹt look good, heʹs covered in blood, I ran along to 
Elfrida Craggʹs portrait to get a good view as they left ‐ʹ 
ʹGood,ʹ said Dumbledore as Ron made a convulsive movement. ʹI take it Dilys 
will have seen him arrive, then ‐ʹ 
And moments later, the silver‐ringleted witch had reappeared in her picture, too; 
she sank, coughing, into her armchair and said, ʹYes, theyʹve taken him to St 
Mungoʹs, Dumbledore… they carried him past my portrait… he looks bad…ʹ 
Thank you,ʹ said Dumbledore. He looked round at Professor McGonagall. 
ʹMinerva, I need you to go and wake the other Weasley children.ʹ 
ʹOf course…ʹ 

Professor McGonagall got up and moved swiftly to the door. Harry cast a 
sideways glance at Ron, who was looking terrified. 
ʹAnd Dumbledore ‐ what about Molly?ʹ said Professor McGonagall, pausing at 
the door. 
That will be a job for Fawkes when he has finished keeping a lookout for 
anybody approaching,ʹ said Dumbledore. ʹBut she may already know… that 
excellent clock of hers…ʹ 
Harry knew Dumbledore was referring to the clock that told, not the time, but 
the whereabouts and conditions of the various Weasley family members, and 
with a pang he thought that Mr Weasleyʹs hand must, even now, be pointing at 
mortal peril. But it was very late. Mrs Weasley was probably asleep, not watching 
the clock. Harry felt cold as he remembered Mrs Weasleyʹs Boggart turning into 
Mr Weasleyʹs lifeless body, his glasses askew, blood running down his face… but 
Mr Weasley wasnʹt going to die… he couldnʹt… 
Dumbledore was now rummaging in a cupboard behind Harry and Ron. He 
emerged from it carrying a blackened old kettle, which he placed carefully on his 
desk. He raised his wand and murmured, ʹPortus!ʹ For a moment the kettle 
trembled, glowing with an odd blue light; then it quivered to rest, as solidly 
black as ever. 
Dumbledore marched over to another portrait, this time of a clever‐looking 
wizard with a pointed beard, who had been painted wearing the Slytherin 
colours of green and silver and was apparently sleeping so deeply that he could 
not hear Dumbledoreʹs voice when he attempted to rouse him. 
ʹPhineas. Phineas.ʹ 
The subjects of the portraits lining the room were no longer pretending to be 
asleep; they were shifting around in their frames, the better to watch what was 
happening. When the clever‐looking wizard continued to feign sleep, some of 
them shouted his name, too. 
ʹPhineas! Phineas! PHINEAS!ʹ 
He could not pretend any longer; he gave a theatrical jerk and opened his eyes 
wide. 

ʹDid someone call?ʹ 
ʹI need you to visit your other portrait again, Phineas,ʹ said Dumbledore. ʹIʹve got 
another message.ʹ 
ʹVisit my other portrait?ʹ said Phineas in a reedy voice, giving a long, fake yawn 
(his eyes travelling around the room and focusing on Harry). ʹOh, no, 
Dumbledore, I am too tired tonight.ʹ 
Something about Phineasʹs voice was familiar to Harry, where had he heard it 
before? But before he could think, the portraits on the surrounding walls broke 
into a storm of protest. 
ʹInsubordination, sir!ʹ roared a corpulent, red‐nosed wizard, brandishing his fists. 
ʹDereliction of duty!ʹ 
ʹWe are honour‐bound to give service to the present Headmaster of Hogwarts!ʹ 
cried a frail‐looking old wizard whom Harry recognised as Dumbledoreʹs 
predecessor, Armando Dippet. ʹShame on you, Phineas!ʹ 
ʹShall I persuade him, Dumbledore?ʹ called a gimlet‐eyed witch, raising an 
unusually thick wand that looked not unlike a birch rod. 
ʹOh, very well,ʹ said the wizard called Phineas, eyeing the wand with mild 
apprehension, ʹthough he may well have destroyed my picture by now, heʹs done 
away with most of the family ‐ʹ 
ʹSirius knows not to destroy your portrait,ʹ said Dumbledore, and Harry realised 
immediately where he had heard Phineasʹs voice before: issuing from the 
apparently empty frame in his bedroom in Grimmauld Place. ʹYou are to give 
him the message that Arthur Weasley has been gravely injured and that his wife, 
children and Harry Potter will be arriving at his house shortly. Do you 
understand?ʹ 
ʹArthur Weasley, injured, wife and children and Harry Potter coming to stay,ʹ 
repeated Phineas in a bored voice. ʹYes, yes… very well 
He sloped away into the frame of the portrait and disappeared from view at the 
very moment the study door opened again. Fred, George and Ginny were 
ushered inside by Professor McGonagall, all three of them looking dishevelled 
and shocked, still in their night things. 

ʹHarry ‐ whatʹs going on?ʹ asked Ginny, who looked frightened. ʹProfessor 
McGonagall says you saw Dad get hurt ‐ʹ 
ʹYour father has been injured in the course of his work for the Order of the 
Phoenix,ʹ said Dumbledore, before Harry could speak. ʹHe has been taken to St 
Mungoʹs Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. I am sending you back to 
Siriusʹs house, which is much more convenient for the hospital than The Burrow. 
You will meet your mother there.ʹ 
ʹHowʹre we going?ʹ asked Fred, looking shaken. Tloo powder?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Dumbledore, Tloo powder is not safe at the moment, the Network is 
being watched. You will be taking a Portkey.ʹ He indicated the old kettle lying 
innocently on his desk. ʹWe are just waiting for Phineas Nigellus to report back… 
I want to be sure that the coast is clear before sending you ‐ʹ 
There was a flash of flame in the very middle of the office, leaving behind a 
single golden feather that floated gently to the floor. 
ʹIt is Fawkesʹs warning,ʹ said Dumbledore, catching the feather as it fell. 
ʹProfessor Umbridge must know youʹre out of your beds… Minerva, go and head 
her off ‐ tell her any story ‐ʹ 
Professor McGonagall was gone in a swish of tartan. 
ʹHe says heʹll be delighted,ʹ said a bored voice behind Dumbledore; the wizard 
called Phineas had reappeared in front of his Slytherin banner. ʹMy great‐great‐
grandson has always had an odd taste in house‐guests.ʹ 
ʹCome here, then,ʹ Dumbledore said to Harry and the Weasleys. ʹAnd quickly, 
before anyone else joins us.ʹ 
Harry and the others gathered around Dumbledoreʹs desk. 
ʹYou have all used a Portkey before?ʹ asked Dumbledore, and they nodded, each 
reaching out to touch some part of the blackened kettle. ʹGood. On the count of 
three, then… one… two…ʹ 
It happened in a fraction of a second: in the infinitesimal pause before 
Dumbledore said ʹthreeʹ, Harry looked up at him ‐ they were very close together 
‐ and Dumbledoreʹs clear blue gaze moved from the Portkey to Harryʹs face. 

At once, Harryʹs scar burned white‐hot, as though the old wound had burst open 
again ‐ and unbidden, unwanted, but terrifyingly strong, there rose within Harry 
a hatred so powerful he felt, for that instant, he would like nothing better than to 
strike ‐ to bite ‐ to sink his fangs into the man before him — 
ʹ… three.ʹ 
Harry felt a powerful jerk behind his navel, the ground vanished from beneath 
his feet, his hand was glued to the kettle; he was banging into the others as they 
all sped forwards in a swirl of colours and a rush of wind, the kettle pulling them 
onwards… until his feet hit the ground so hard his knees buckled, the kettle 
clattered to the ground, and somewhere close at hand a voice said: 
ʹBack again, the blood‐traitor brats. Is it true their fatherʹs dying?ʹ 
ʹOUT!ʹ roared a second voice. 
Harry scrambled to his feet and looked around; they had arrived in the gloomy 
basement kitchen of number twelve, Grimmauld Place. The only sources of light 
were the fire and one guttering candle, which illuminated the remains of a 
solitary supper. Kreacher was disappearing through the door to the hall, looking 
back at them malevolently as he hitched up his loincloth; Sirius was hurrying 
towards them all, looking anxious. He was unshaven and still in his day clothes; 
there was also a slightly Mundungus‐like whiff of stale drink about him. 
ʹWhatʹs going on?ʹ he said, stretching out a hand to help Ginny up. Thineas 
Nigellus said Arthurʹs been badly injured —ʹ 
ʹAsk Harry,ʹ said Fred. 
ʹYeah, I want to hear this for myself,ʹ said George. 
The twins and Ginny were staring at him. Kreacherʹs footsteps had stopped on 
the stairs outside. 
ʹIt was ‐ʹ Harry began; this was even worse than telling McGonagall and 
Dumbledore. ʹI had a ‐ a kind of ‐ vision 
And he told them all that he had seen, though he altered the story so that it 
sounded as though he had watched from the sidelines as the snake attacked, 
rather than from behind the snakeʹs own eyes. Ron, who was still very white, 

gave him a fleeting look, but did not speak. When Harry had finished, Fred, 
George and Ginny continued to stare at him for a moment. Harry did not know 
whether he was imagining it or not, but he fancied there was something 
accusatory in their looks. Well, if they were going to blame him just for seeing 
the attack, he was glad he had not told them that he had been inside the snake at 
the time. 
ʹIs Mum here?ʹ said Fred, turning to Sirius. 
ʹShe probably doesnʹt even know whatʹs happened yet,ʹ said Sirius. The 
important thing was to get you away before Umbridge could interfere. I expect 
Dumbledores letting Molly know now.ʹ 
ʹWeʹve got to go to St Mungoʹs,ʹ said Ginny urgently. She looked around at her 
brothers; they were of course still in their pyjamas. ʹSirius, can you lend us cloaks 
or anything?ʹ 
ʹHang on, you canʹt go tearing off to St Mungoʹs!ʹ said Sirius. 
ʹCourse we can go to St Mungoʹs if we want,ʹ said Fred, with a mulish expression. 
ʹHeʹs our dad!ʹ 
ʹAnd how are you going to explain how you knew Arthur was attacked before 
the hospital even let his wife know?ʹ 
ʹWhat does that matter?ʹ said George hotly. 
ʹIt matters because we donʹt want to draw attention to the fact that Harry is 
having visions of things that are happening hundreds of miles away!ʹ said Sirius 
angrily. ʹHave you any idea what the Ministry would make of that information?ʹ 
Fred and George looked as though they could not care less what the Ministry 
made of anything. Ron was still ashen‐faced and silent. 
Ginny said, ʹSomebody else could have told us… we could have heard it 
somewhere other than Harry.ʹ 
ʹLike who?ʹ said Sirius impatiently. ʹListen, your dadʹs been hurt while on duty 
for the Order and the circumstances are fishy enough without his children 
knowing about it seconds after it happened, you could seriously damage the 
Orderʹs ‐ʹ 

ʹWe donʹt care about the dumb Order!ʹ shouted Fred. 
ʹItʹs our dad dying weʹre talking about!ʹ yelled George. 
ʹYour father knew what he was getting into and he wonʹt thank you for messing 
things up for the Order!ʹ said Sirius, equally angry. This is how it is ‐ this is why 
youʹre not in the Order ‐ you donʹt understand ‐ there are things worth dying 
for!ʹ 
ʹEasy for you to say, stuck here!ʹ bellowed Fred. ʹI donʹt see you risking your 
neck!ʹ 
The little colour remaining in Siriusʹs face drained from it. He looked for a 
moment as though he would quite like to hit Fred, but when he spoke, it was in a 
voice of determined calm. 
ʹI know itʹs hard, but weʹve all got to act as though we donʹt know anything yet. 
Weʹve got to stay put, at least until we hear from your mother, all right?ʹ 
Fred and George still looked mutinous. Ginny, however, took a few steps over to 
the nearest chair and sank into it. Harry looked at Ron, who made a funny 
movement somewhere between a nod and a shrug, and they sat down too. The 
twins glared at Sirius for another minute, then took seats either side of Ginny. 
Thatʹs right,ʹ said Sirius encouragingly, ʹcome on, letʹs all… letʹs all have a drink 
while weʹre waiting. Accio Butterbeer!ʹ 
He raised his wand as he spoke and half a dozen bottles came flying towards 
them out of the pantry, skidded along the table, scattering the debris of Sinusʹs 
meal, and stopped neatly in front of the six of them. They all drank, and for a 
while the only sounds were those of the crackling of the kitchen fire and the soft 
thud of their bottles on the table. 
Harry was only drinking to have something to do with his hands. His stomach 
was full of horrible hot, bubbling guilt. They would not be here if it were not for 
him; they would all still be asleep in bed. And it was no good telling himself that 
by raising the alarm he had ensured that Mr Weasley was found, because there 
was also the inescapable business of it being he who had attacked Mr Weasley in 
the first place. 

Donʹt be stupid, you havenʹt got fangs, he told himself, trying to keep calm, though 
the hand on his Butterbeer bottle was shaking, you were lying in bed, you werenʹt 
attacking anyone… 
But then, what just happened in Dumbledoreʹs office? he asked himself. I felt like I 
wanted to attack Dumbledore, too… 
He put the bottle down a little harder than he meant to, and it slopped over on to 
the table. No one took any notice. Then a burst of fire in midair illuminated the 
dirty plates in front of them and, as they gave cries of shock, a scroll of 
parchment fell with a thud on to the table, accompanied by a single golden 
phoenix tail feather. 
ʹFawkes!ʹ said Sirius at once, snatching up the parchment. Thatʹs not 
Dumbledoreʹs writing ‐ it must be a message from your mother ‐ here ‐ʹ 
He thrust the letter into Georgeʹs hand, who ripped it open and read aloud: ʹDad 
is still alive. I am setting out for St Mungoʹs now. Stay where you are. I will send news 
as soon as I can. Mum.ʹ 
George looked around the table. 
ʹStill alive…ʹ he said slowly. ʹBut that makes it sound…ʹ 
He did not need to finish the sentence. It sounded to Harry, too, as though Mr 
Weasley was hovering somewhere between life and death. Still exceptionally 
pale, Ron stared at the back of his mothers letter as though it might speak words 
of comfort to him. Fred pulled the parchment out of Georgeʹs hands and read it 
for himself, then looked up at Harry, who felt his hand shaking on his Butterbeer 
bottle again and clenched it more tightly to stop the trembling. 
If Harry had ever sat through a longer night than this one, he could not 
remember it. Sirius suggested once, without any real conviction, that they all go 
to bed, but the Weasleysʹ looks of disgust were answer enough. They mostly sat 
in silence around the table, watching the candle wick sinking lower and lower 
into liquid wax, occasionally raising a bottle to their lips, speaking only to check 
the time, to wonder aloud what was happening, and to reassure each other that if 
there was bad news, they would know straightaway, for Mrs Weasley must long 
since have arrived at St Mungoʹs. 

Fred fell into a doze, his head lolling sideways on to his shoulder. Ginny was 
curled like a cat on her chair, but her eyes were open; Harry could see them 
reflecting the firelight. Ron was sitting with his head in his hands, whether 
awake or asleep it was impossible to tell. Harry and Sirius looked at each other 
every so often, intruders upon the family grief, waiting… waiting… 
At ten past five in the morning by Ronʹs watch, the kitchen door swung open and 
Mrs Weasley entered the kitchen. She was extremely pale, but when they all 
turned to look at her, Fred, Ron and Harry half rising from their chairs, she gave 
a wan smile. 
ʹHeʹs going to be all right,ʹ she said, her voice weak with tiredness. ʹHeʹs sleeping. 
We can all go and see him later. Billʹs sitting with him now; heʹs going to take the 
morning off work.ʹ 
Fred fell back into his chair with his hands over his face. George and Ginny got 
up, walked swiftly over to their mother and hugged her. Ron gave a very shaky 
laugh and downed the rest of his Butterbeer in one. 
ʹBreakfast!ʹ said Sirius loudly and joyfully, jumping to his feet. ʹWhereʹs that 
accursed house‐elf? Kreacher! KREACHER!ʹ 
But Kreacher did not answer the summons. 
ʹOh, forget it, then,ʹ muttered Sirius, counting the people in front of him. ʹSo, itʹs 
breakfast for ‐ letʹs see ‐ seven… bacon and eggs, 1 think, and some tea, and toast 
‐ʹ 
Harry hurried over to the stove to help. He did not want to intrude on the 
Weasleysʹ happiness and he dreaded the moment when Mrs Weasley would ask 
him to recount his vision. However, he had barely taken plates from the dresser 
when Mrs Weasley lifted them out of his hands and pulled him into a hug. 
ʹI donʹt know what would have happened if it hadnʹt been for you, Harry,ʹ she 
said in a muffled voice. They might not have found Arthur for hours, and then it 
would have been too late, but thanks to you heʹs alive and Dumbledoreʹs been 
able to think up a good cover story for Arthur being where he was, youʹve no 
idea what trouble he would have been in otherwise, look at poor Sturgis…ʺ 
Harry could hardly bear her gratitude, but fortunately she soon released him to 
turn to Sirius and thank him for looking after her children through the night. 

Sirius said he was very pleased to have been able to help, and hoped they would 
all stay with him as long as Mr Weasley was in hospital. 
ʹOh, Sirius, Iʹm so grateful… they think heʹll be there a little while and it would 
be wonderful to be nearer… of course, that might mean weʹre here for 
Christmas.ʹ 
The more the merrier!ʹ said Sirius with such obvious sincerity that Mrs Weasley 
beamed at him, threw on an apron and began to help with breakfast. 
ʹSirius,ʹ Harry muttered, unable to stand it a moment longer. ʹCan I have a quick 
word? Er ‐ now?ʹ 
He walked into the dark pantry and Sirius followed. Without preamble, Harry 
told his godfather every detail of the vision he had had, including the fact that he 
himself had been the snake who had attacked Mr Weasley. 
When he paused for breath, Sirius said, ʹDid you tell Dumbledore this?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry impatiently, ʹbut he didnʹt tell me what it meant. Well, he 
doesnʹt tell me anything any more.ʹ 
ʹIʹm sure he would have told you if it was anything to worry about,ʹ said Sirius 
steadily. 
ʹBut thatʹs not all,ʹ said Harry, in a voice only a little above a whisper. ʹSirius, I… I 
think Iʹm going mad. Back in Dumbledoreʹs office, just before we took the 
Portkey… for a couple of seconds there I thought I was a snake, I felt like one ‐ 
my scar really hurt when I was looking at Dumbledore ‐ Sirius, I wanted to 
attack him!ʹ 
He could only see a sliver of Siriuss face; the rest was in darkness. 
ʹIt must have been the aftermath of the vision, thatʹs all,ʹ said Sirius. ʹYou were 
still thinking of the dream or whatever it was and ‐ʹ 
ʹIt wasnʹt that,ʹ said Harry, shaking his head, ʹit was like something rose up inside 
me, like thereʹs a snake inside me.ʹ 
ʹYou need to sleep,ʹ said Sirius firmly. ʹYouʹre going to have breakfast, then go 
upstairs to bed, and after lunch you can go and see Arthur with the others. 

Youʹre in shock, Harry; youʹre blaming yourself for something you only 
witnessed, and itʹs lucky you did witness it or Arthur might have died. Just stop 
worrying.ʹ 
He clapped Harry on the shoulder and left the pantry, leaving Harry standing 
alone in the dark. 
* 
Everyone but Harry spent the rest of the morning sleeping. He went up to the 
bedroom he and Ron had shared over the last few weeks of summer, but while 
Ron crawled into bed and was asleep within minutes, Harry sat fully clothed, 
hunched against the cold metal bars of the bedstead, keeping himself 
deliberately uncomfortable, determined not to fall into a doze, terrified that he 
might become the serpent again in his sleep and wake to find that he had 
attacked Ron, or else slithered through the house after one of the others… 
When Ron woke up, Harry pretended to have enjoyed a refreshing nap too. 
Their trunks arrived from Hogwarts while they were eating lunch, so they could 
dress as Muggles for the trip to St Mungoʹs. Everybody except Harry was 
riotously happy and talkative as they changed out of their robes into jeans and 
sweatshirts. When Tonks and Mad‐Eye turned up to escort them across London, 
they greeted them gleefully, laughing at the bowler hat Mad‐Eye was wearing at 
an angle to conceal his magical eye and assuring him, truthfully, that Tonks, 
whose hair was short and bright pink again, would attract far less attention on 
the Underground. 
Tonks was very interested in Harryʹs vision of the attack on Mr Weasley, 
something Harry was not remotely interested in discussing. 
There isnʹt any Seer blood in your family, is there?ʹ she enquired curiously, as 
they sat side by side on a train rattling towards the heart of the city. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry, thinking of Professor Trelawney and feeling insulted. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Tonks musingly, ʹno, I suppose itʹs not really prophecy youʹre doing, is 
it? I mean, youʹre not seeing the future, youʹre seeing the present… itʹs odd, isnʹt 
it? Useful, though…ʹ 
Harry didnʹt answer; fortunately, they got out at the next stop, a station in the 
very heart of London, and in the bustle of leaving the train he was able to allow 

Fred and George to get between himself and Tonks, who was leading the way. 
They all followed her up the escalator, Moody clunking along at the back of the 
group, his bowler tilted low and one gnarled hand stuck in between the buttons 
of his coat, clutching his wand. Harry thought he sensed the concealed eye 
staring hard at him. Trying to avoid any more questions about his dream, he 
asked Mad‐Eye where St Mungoʹs was hidden. 
ʹNot far from here,ʹ grunted Moody as they stepped out into the wintry air on a 
broad store‐lined street packed with Christmas shoppers. He pushed Harry a 
little ahead of him and stumped along just behind; Harry knew the eye was 
rolling in all directions under the tilted hat. ʹWasnʹt easy to find a good location 
for a hospital. Nowhere in Diagon Alley was big enough and we couldnʹt have it 
underground like the Ministry ‐ wouldnʹt be healthy. In the end they managed to 
get hold of a building up here. Theory was, sick wizards could come and go and 
just blend in with the crowd.ʹ 
He seized Harryʹs shoulder to prevent them being separated by a gaggle of 
shoppers plainly intent on nothing but making it into a nearby shop full of 
electrical gadgets. 
ʹHere we go,ʹ said Moody a moment later. 
They had arrived outside a large, old‐fashioned, red‐brick department store 
called Purge 6z Dowse Ltd. The place had a shabby, miserable air; the window 
displays consisted of a few chipped dummies with their wigs askew, standing at 
random and modelling fashions at least ten years out of date. Large signs on all 
the dusty doors read: ʹClosed for Refurbishmentʹ. Harry distinctly heard a large 
woman laden with plastic shopping bags say to her friend as they passed, ʹItʹs 
never open, that place…ʹ 
ʹRight,ʹ said Tonks, beckoning them towards a window displaying nothing but a 
particularly ugly female dummy. Its false eyelashes were hanging off and it was 
modelling a green nylon pinafore dress. ʹEverybody ready?ʹ 
They nodded, clustering around her. Moody gave Harry another shove between 
the shoulder blades to urge him forward and Tonks leaned close to the glass, 
looking up at the very ugly dummy, her breath steaming up the glass. ʹWotcher,ʹ 
she said, ʹweʹre here to see Arthur Weasley.ʹ 

Harry thought how absurd it was for Tonks to expect the dummy to hear her 
talking so quietly through a sheet of glass, with buses rumbling along behind her 
and all the racket of a street full of shoppers. Then he reminded himself that 
dummies couldnʹt hear anyway. Next second, his mouth opened in shock as the 
dummy gave a tiny nod and beckoned with its jointed finger, and Tonks had 
seized Ginny and Mrs Weasley by. the elbows, stepped right through the glass 
and vanished. 
Fred, George and Ron stepped after them. Harry glanced around at the jostling 
crowd; not one of them seemed to have a glance to spare for window displays as 
ugly as those of Purge & Dowse Ltd; nor did any of them seem to have noticed 
that six people had just melted into thin air in front of them. 
ʹCʹmon,ʹ growled Moody, giving Harry yet another poke in the back, and 
together they stepped forward through what felt like a sheet of cool water, 
emerging quite warm and dry on the other side. 
There was no sign of the ugly dummy or the space where she had stood. They 
were in what seemed to be a crowded reception area where rows of witches and 
wizards sat upon rickety wooden chairs, some looking perfectly normal and 
perusing out‐of‐date copies of Witch Weekly, others sporting gruesome 
disfigurements such as elephant trunks or extra hands sticking out of their 
chests. The room was scarcely less quiet than the street outside, for many of the 
patients were making very peculiar noises: a sweaty‐faced witch in the centre of 
the front row, who was fanning herself vigorously with a copy of the Daily 
Prophet, kept letting off a high‐pitched whistle as steam came pouring out of her 
mouth; a grubby‐looking warlock in the corner clanged like a bell every time he 
moved and, with each clang, his head vibrated horribly so that he had to seize 
himself by the ears to hold it steady. 
Witches and wizards in lime‐green robes were walking up and down the rows, 
asking questions and making notes on clipboards like Umbridgeʹs. Harry noticed 
the emblem embroidered on their chests: a wand and bone, crossed. 
ʹAre they doctors?ʹ he asked Ron quietly. 
ʹDoctors?ʹ said Ron, looking startled. Those Muggle nutters that cut people up? 
Nah, theyʹre Healers.ʹ 

ʹOver here!ʹ called Mrs Weasley above the renewed clanging of the warlock in the 
corner, and they followed her to the queue in front of a plump blonde witch 
seated at a desk marked Enquiries. The wall behind her was covered in notices 
and posters saying things like: A CLEAN CAULDRON KEEPS POTIONS FROM 
BECOMING POISONS and ANTIDOTES ARE ANTI‐DONʹTS UNLESS 
APPROVED BY A QUALIFIED HEALER. There was also a large portrait of a 
witch with long silver ringlets which was labelled: 
Dilys Derwent
St Mungoʹs Healer 1722‐
Headmistress of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry 1741‐
Dilys was eyeing the Weasley party closely as though counting them; when 
Harry caught her eye she gave a tiny wink, walked sideways out of her portrait 
and vanished. 
Meanwhile, at the front of the queue, a young wizard was performing an odd on‐
the‐spot jig and trying, in between yelps of pain, to explain his predicament to 
the witch behind the desk. 
ʹItʹs these ‐ ouch ‐ shoes my brother gave me ‐ ow ‐ theyʹre eating my ‐ OUCH ‐ 
feet ‐ look at them, there must be some kind of ‐ AARGH ‐ jinx on them and I 
canʹt ‐ AAAAARGH ‐ get them off.ʹ He hopped from one foot to the other as 
though dancing on hot coals. 
The shoes donʹt prevent you reading, do they?ʹ said the blonde witch, irritably 
pointing at a large sign to the left of her desk. ʹYou want Spell Damage, fourth 
floor. Just like it says on the floor guide. Next!ʹ 
As the wizard hobbled and pranced sideways out of the way, the Weasley party 
moved forward a few steps and Harry read the floor guide: 
ARTEFACT ACCIDENTS… Ground floor 
Cauldron explosion, wand backfiring, broom crashes, etc.
CREATURE‐INDUCED INJURIES… First floor 
Bites, stings, burns, embedded spines, etc.

MAGICAL BUGS… Second floor 
Contagious maladies, e.g. dragon pox, vanishing sickness, scrojungulus, etc.
POTION AND PLANT POISONING… Third floor 
Rashes, regurgitation, uncontrollable 2, etc. 
SPELL DAMAGE… Fourth floor 
Unliftable jinxes, hexes, incorrectly applied charms, etc.
VISITORSʹ TEAROOM / HOSPITAL SHOP… Fifth floor 
IF YOU ARE UNSURE WHERE TO GO, INCAPABLE OF NORMAL SPEECH 
OR UNABLE TO REMEMBER WHY YOU ARE HERE, OUR WELCOMEWITCH 
WILL BE PLEASED TO HELP. 
A very old, stooped wizard with a hearing trumpet had shuffled to the front of 
the queue now. ʹIʹm here to see Broderick Bode!ʹ he wheezed. 
ʹWard forty‐nine, but Iʹm afraid youʹre wasting your time,ʹ said the witch 
dismissively. ʹHeʹs completely addled, you know ‐ still thinks heʹs a teapot. Next!ʹ 
A harassed‐looking wizard was holding his small daughter tightly by the ankle 
while she flapped around his head using the immensely large, feathery wings 
that had sprouted right out through the back of her romper suit. 
ʹFourth floor,ʹ said the witch, in a bored voice, without asking, and the man 
disappeared through the double doors beside the desk, holding his daughter like 
an oddly shaped balloon. ʹNext!ʹ 
Mrs Weasley moved forward to the desk. 
ʹHello,ʹ she said, ʹmy husband, Arthur Weasley, was supposed to be moved to a 
different ward this morning, could you tell us ‐?ʹ 
ʹArthur Weasley?ʹ said the witch, running her finger down a long list in front of 
her. ʹYes, first floor, second door on the right, Dai Llewellyn Ward.ʹ 
Thank you,ʹ said Mrs Weasley. ʹCome on, you lot.ʹ 

They followed her through the double doors and along the narrow corridor 
beyond, which was lined with more portraits of famous Healers and lit by crystal 
bubbles full of candles that floated up on the ceiling, looking like giant soapsuds. 
More witches and wizards in lime‐green robes walked in and out of the doors 
they passed; a foul‐smelling yellow gas wafted into the passageway as they 
passed one door, and every now and then they heard distant wailing. They 
climbed a flight of stairs and entered the Creature‐Induced Injuries corridor, 
where the second door on the right bore the words: ʹDangerousʹ Dai Llewellyn 
Ward: Serious Bites. Underneath this was a card in a brass holder on which had 
been handwritten: Healer‐in‐Charge: Hippocrates Smethwyck. Trainee Healer: 
Augustus Pye. 
ʹWeʹll wait outside, Molly,ʹ Tonks said. ʹArthur wonʹt want too many visitors at 
once… it ought to be just the family first.ʹ 
Mad‐Eye growled his approval of this idea and set himself with his back against 
the corridor wall, his magical eye spinning in all directions. Harry drew back, 
too, but Mrs Weasley reached out a hand and pushed him through the door, 
saying, ʹDonʹt be silly, Harry, Arthur wants to thank you.ʹ 
The ward was small and rather dingy, as the only window was narrow and set 
high in the wall facing the door. Most of the light came from more shining crystal 
bubbles clustered in the middle of the ceiling. The walls were of panelled oak 
and there was a portrait of a rather vicious‐looking wizard on the wall, 
captioned: Urquhart Rackharrow, 1612—1697, Inventor of the Entrail‐expelling Curse. 
There were only three patients. Mr Weasley was occupying the bed at the far end 
of the ward beside the tiny window. Harry was pleased and relieved to see that 
he was propped up on several pillows and reading the Daily Prophet by the 
solitary ray of sunlight falling on to his bed. He looked up as they walked 
towards him and, seeing who it was, beamed. 
ʹHello!ʹ he called, throwing the Prophet aside. ʹBill just left, Molly, had to get back 
to work, but he says heʹll drop in on you later.ʹ 
ʹHow are you, Arthur?ʹ asked Mrs Weasley, bending down to kiss his cheek and 
looking anxiously into his face. ʹYouʹre still looking a bit peaky.ʹ 
ʹI feel absolutely fine,ʹ said Mr Weasley brightly, holding out his good arm to 
give Ginny a hug. ʹIf they could only take the bandages off, Iʹd be fit to go home.ʹ 

ʹWhy canʹt they take them off, Dad?ʹ asked Fred. 
ʹWell, I start bleeding like mad every time they try,ʹ said Mr Weasley cheerfully, 
reaching across for his wand, which lay on his bedside cabinet, and waving it so 
that six extra chairs appeared at his bedside to seat them all. ʹIt seems there was 
some rather unusual kind of poison in that snakeʹs fangs that keeps wounds 
open. Theyʹre sure theyʹll find an antidote, though; they say theyʹve had much 
worse cases than mine, and in the meantime I just have to keep taking a Blood‐
Replenishing Potion every hour. But that fellow over there,ʹ he said, dropping his 
voice and nodding towards the bed opposite in which a man lay looking green 
and sickly and staring at the ceiling. ʹBitten by a werewolf, poor chap. No cure at 
all.ʹ 
ʹA werewolf?ʹ whispered Mrs Weasley, looking alarmed. ʹIs he safe in a public 
ward? Shouldnʹt he be in a private room?ʹ 
ʹItʹs two weeks till full moon,ʹ Mr Weasley reminded her quietly. Theyʹve been 
talking to him this morning, the Healers, you know, trying to persuade him heʹll 
be able to lead an almost normal life. I said to him ‐ didnʹt mention names, of 
course ‐ but I said I knew a werewolf personally, very nice man, who finds the 
condition quite easy to manage.ʹ 
ʹWhat did he say?ʹ asked George. 
ʹSaid heʹd give me another bite if I didnʹt shut up,ʹ said Mr Weasley sadly. ʹAnd 
that woman over there,ʹ he indicated the only other occupied bed, which was 
right beside the door, ʹwonʹt tell the Healers what bit her, which makes us all 
think it must have been something she was handling illegally. Whatever it was 
took a real chunk out of her leg, very nasty smell when they take off the 
dressings.ʹ 
ʹSo, you going to tell us what happened, Dad?ʹ asked Fred, pulling his chair 
closer to the bed. 
ʹWell, you already know, donʹt you?ʹ said Mr Weasley, with a significant smile at 
Harry. ʹItʹs very simple ‐ Iʹd had a very long day, dozed off, got sneaked up on 
and bitten.ʹ 
ʹIs it in the Prophet, you being attacked?ʹ asked Fred, indicating the newspaper 
Mr Weasley had cast aside. 

ʹNo, of course not,ʹ said Mr Weasley, with a slightly bitter smile, ʹthe Ministry 
wouldnʹt want everyone to know a dirty great serpent got —ʹ 
ʹArthur!ʹ Mrs Weasley warned him. 
ʹ‐ got ‐ er ‐ me,ʹ Mr Weasley said hastily, though Harry was quite sure that was 
not what he had meant to say. 
ʹSo where were you when it happened, Dad?ʹ asked George. 
Thatʹs my business,ʹ said Mr Weasley, though with a small smile. He snatched up 
the Daily Prophet, shook it open again and said, ʹI was just reading about Willy 
Widdershinsʹs arrest when you arrived. You know Willy turned out to be behind 
those regurgitating toilets back in the summer? One of his jinxes backfired, the 
toilet exploded and they found him lying unconscious in the wreckage covered 
from head to foot in ‐ʹ 
ʹWhen you say you were ʺon dutyʺ,ʹ Fred interrupted in a low voice, ʹwhat were 
you doing?ʹ 
ʹYou heard your father,ʹ whispered Mrs Weasley, ʹwe are not discussing this 
here! Go on about Willy Widdershins, Arthur.ʹ 
ʹWell, donʹt ask me how, but he actually got off the toilet charge,ʹ said Mr 
Weasley grimly. ʹI can only suppose gold changed hands ‐ʹ 
ʹYou were guarding it, werenʹt you?ʹ said George quietly. The weapon? The thing 
You‐Know‐Whoʹs after?ʹ 
ʹGeorge, be quiet!ʹ snapped Mrs Weasley. 
ʹAnyway,ʹ said Mr Weasley, in a raised voice, ʹthis time Willyʹs been caught 
selling biting doorknobs to Muggles and I donʹt think heʹll be able to worm his 
way out of it because, according to this article, two Muggles have lost fingers and 
are now in St Mungoʹs for emergency bone re‐growth and memory modification. 
Just think of it, Muggles in St Mungoʹs! I wonder which ward theyʹre in?ʹ 
And he looked eagerly around as though hoping to see a signpost. 

ʹDidnʹt you say You‐Know‐Whoʹs got a snake, Harry?ʹ asked Fred, looking at his 
father for a reaction. ʹA massive one? You saw it the night he returned, didnʹt 
you?ʹ 
Thatʹs enough,ʹ said Mrs Weasley crossly. ʹMad‐Eye and Tonks are outside, 
Arthur, they want to come and see you. And you lot can wait outside,ʹ she added 
to her children and Harry. ʹYou can come and say goodbye afterwards. Go on.ʹ 
They trooped back into the corridor. Mad‐Eye and Tonks went in and closed the 
door of the ward behind them. Fred raised his eyebrows. 
ʹFine,ʹ he said coolly, rummaging in his pockets, ʹbe like that. Donʹt tell us 
anything.ʹ 
ʹLooking for these?ʹ said George, holding out what looked like a tangle of flesh‐
coloured string. 
ʹYou read my mind,ʹ said Fred, grinning. ʹLetʹs see if St Mungoʹs puts 
Imperturbable Charms on its ward doors, shall we?ʹ 
He and George disentangled the string and separated five Extendable Ears from 
each other. Fred and George handed them around. Harry hesitated to take one. 
ʹGo on, Harry, take it! You saved Dadʹs life. If anyoneʹs got the right to eavesdrop 
on him, itʹs you.ʹ 
Grinning in spite of himself, Harry took the end of the string and inserted it into 
his ear as the twins had done. 
ʹOK, go!ʹ Fred whispered. 
The flesh‐coloured strings wriggled like long skinny worms and snaked under 
the door. At first, Harry could hear nothing, then he jumped as he heard Tonks 
whispering as clearly as though she were standing right beside him. 
ʹ… they searched the whole area but couldnʹt find the snake anywhere. It just 
seems to have vanished after it attacked you, Arthur… but You‐Know‐Who canʹt 
have expected a snake to get in, can he?ʹ 
ʹI reckon he sent it as a lookout,ʹ growled Moody, ʺcause heʹs not had any luck so 
far, has he? No, I reckon heʹs trying to get a clearer picture of what heʹs facing 

and if Arthur hadnʹt been there the beast wouldʹve had a lot more time to look 
around. So, Potter says he saw it all happen?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Mrs Weasley. She sounded rather uneasy. ʹYou know, Dumbledore 
seems almost to have been waiting for Harry to see something like this.ʹ 
ʹYeah, well,ʹ said Moody, ʹthereʹs something funny about the Potter kid, we all 
know that.ʹ 
ʹDumbledore seemed worried about Harry when I spoke to him this morning,ʹ 
whispered Mrs Weasley. 
ʹCourse heʹs worried,ʹ growled Moody. ʹThe boyʹs seeing things from inside You‐
Know‐Whoʹs snake. Obviously, Potter doesnʹt realise what that means, but if 
You‐Know‐Whoʹs possessing him —ʹ 
Harry pulled the Extendable Ear out of his own, his heart hammering very fast 
and heat rushing up his face. He looked around at the others. They were all 
staring at him, the strings still trailing from their ears, looking suddenly fearful. 
— CHAPTER TWENTY‐THREE — 
Christmas on the Closed Ward
Was this why Dumbledore would no longer meet Harryʹs eyes? Did he expect to 
see Voldemort staring out of them, afraid, perhaps, that their vivid green might 
turn suddenly to scarlet, with catlike slits for pupils? Harry remembered how the 
snakelike face of Voldemort had once forced itself out of the back of Professor 
Quirrellʹs head and ran his hand over the back of his own, wondering what it 
would feel like if Voldemort burst out of his skull. 
He felt dirty, contaminated, as though he were carrying some deadly germ, 
unworthy to sit on the Underground train back from the hospital with innocent, 
clean people whose minds and bodies were free of the taint of Voldemort… he 
had not merely seen the snake, he had been the snake, he knew it now… 
A truly terrible thought then occurred to him, a memory bobbing to the surface 
of his mind, one that made his insides writhe and squirm like serpents. 
Whatʹs he after, apart from followers?

Stuff he can only get by stealth… like a weapon. Something he didnʹt have last time.
Iʹm the weapon, Harry thought, and it was as though poison were pumping 
through his veins, chilling him, bringing him out in a sweat as he swayed with 
the train through the dark tunnel. Iʹm the one Voldemorts trying to use, thatʹs 
why theyʹve got guards around me everywhere I go, itʹs not for my protection, 
itʹs for other peopleʹs, only itʹs not working, they canʹt have someone on me all 
the time at Hogwarts… I did attack Mr Weasley last night, it was me. Voldemort 
made me do it and he could be inside me, listening to my thoughts right now ‐ 
ʹAre you all right, Harry, dear?ʹ whispered Mrs Weasley leaning across Ginny to 
speak to him as the train rattled along through its dark tunnel. ʹYou donʹt look 
very well. Are you feeling sick?ʹ 
They were all watching him. He shook his head violently and stared up at an 
advertisement for home insurance. 
ʹHarry, dear, are you sure youʹre all right?ʹ said Mrs Weasley in a worried voice, 
as they walked around the unkempt patch of grass in the middle of Grimmauld 
Place. ʹYou look ever so pale… are you sure you slept this morning? You go 
upstairs to bed right now and you can have a couple of hours of sleep before 
dinner, all right?ʹ 
He nodded; here was a ready‐made excuse not to talk to any of the others, which 
was precisely what he wanted, so when she opened the front door he hurried 
straight past the trollʹs‐leg umbrella stand, up the stairs and into his and Ronʹs 
bedroom. 
Here, he began to pace up and down, past the two beds and Phineas Nigellusʹs 
empty picture frame, his brain teeming and seething with questions and ever 
more dreadful ideas. 
How had he become a snake? Perhaps he was an Animagus… no, he couldnʹt be, 
he would know… perhaps Voldemort was an Animagus… yes, thought Harry, 
that would fit, he would turn into a snake of course… and when heʹs possessing 
me, then we both transform… that still doesnʹt explain how I got to London and 
back to my bed in the space of about five minutes… but then Voldemortʹs about 
the most powerful wizard in the world, apart from Dumbledore, itʹs probably no 
problem at all to him to transport people like that. 

And then, with a terrible stab of panic, he thought, but this is insane ‐ if 
Voldemortʹs possessing me, Iʹm giving him a dear view into the Headquarters of the 
Order of the Phoenix right now! Heʹll know whoʹs in the Order and where Sirius is… 
and Iʹve heard loads of stuff I shouldnʹt have, everything Sirius told me the first night I 
was here… 
There was only one thing for it: he would have to leave Grimmauld Place 
straightaway. He would spend Christmas at 
Hogwarts without the others, which would keep them safe over the holidays at 
least… but no, that wouldnʹt do, there were still plenty of people at Hogwarts to 
maim and injure. What if it was Seamus, Dean or Neville next time? He stopped 
his pacing and stood staring at Phineas Nigellusʹs empty frame. A leaden 
sensation was settling in the pit of his stomach. He had no alternative: he was 
going to have to return to Privet Drive, cut himself off from other wizards 
entirely. 
Well, if he had to do it, he thought, there was no point hanging around. Trying 
with all his might not to think how the Dursleys were going to react when they 
found him on their doorstep six months earlier than they had expected, he strode 
over to his trunk, slammed the lid shut and locked it, then glanced around 
automatically for Hedwig before remembering that she was still at Hogwarts ‐ 
well, her cage would be one less thing to carry ‐ he seized one end of his trunk 
and had dragged it halfway towards the door when a snide voice said, ʹRunning 
away, are we?ʹ 
He looked around. Phineas Nigellus had appeared on the canvas of his portrait 
and was leaning against the frame, watching Harry with an amused expression 
on his face. 
ʹNot running away, no,ʹ said Harry shortly, dragging his trunk a few more feet 
across the room. 
ʹI thought,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus, stroking his pointed beard, ʹthat to belong in 
Gryffindor house you were supposed to be brave! It looks to me as though you 
would have been better off in my own house. We Slytherins are brave, yes, but 
not stupid. For instance, given the choice, we will always choose to save our own 
necks.ʹ 

ʹItʹs not my own neck Iʹm saving,ʹ said Harry tersely, tugging the trunk over a 
patch of particularly uneven, moth‐eaten carpet right in front of the door. 
ʹOh, I see,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus, still stroking his beard, ʹthis is no cowardly 
flight ‐ you are being noble.ʹ 
Harry ignored him. His hand was on the doorknob when Phineas Nigellus said 
lazily, ʹI have a message for you from Albus Dumbledore.ʹ 
Harry span round. 
ʹWhat is it?ʹ 
ʹʺStay where you are.ʺʹ 
ʹI havenʹt moved!ʹ said Harry, his hand still upon the doorknob. ʹSo whatʹs the 
message?ʹ 
ʹI have just given it to you, dolt,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus smoothly. ʹDumbledore 
says, ʺStay where you are.ʹʺ
ʹWhy?ʹ said Harry eagerly, dropping the end of his trunk. ʹWhy does he want me 
to stay? What else did he say?ʹ 
ʹNothing whatsoever,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus, raising a thin black eyebrow as 
though he found Harry impertinent. 
Harryʹs temper rose to the surface like a snake rearing from long grass. He was 
exhausted, he was confused beyond measure, he had experienced terror, relief, 
then terror again in the last twelve hours, and still Dumbledore did not want to 
talk to him! 
ʹSo thatʹs it, is it?ʹ he said loudly. ʹʺStay where you areʺ! Thatʹs all anyone could tell 
me after I got attacked by those Dementors, too! Just stay put while the grown‐
ups sort it out, Harry! We wonʹt bother telling you anything, though, because 
your tiny little brain might not be able to cope with it!ʹ 
ʹYou know,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus, even more loudly than Harry ʹthis is precisely 
why I loathed being a teacher! Young people are so infernally convinced that they 
are absolutely right about everything. Has it not occurred to you, my poor 
puffed‐up popinjay, that there might be an excellent reason why the Headmaster 

of Hogwarts is not confiding every tiny detail of his plans to you? Have you 
never paused, while feeling hard‐done‐by, to note that following Dumbledores 
orders has never yet led you into harm? No. No, like all young people, you are 
quite sure that you alone feel and think, you alone recognise danger, you alone 
are the only one clever enough to realise what the Dark Lord may be planning ‐ʹ 
ʹHe is planning something to do with me, then?ʹ said Harry swiftly. 
ʹDid I say that?ʹ said Phineas Nigellus, idly examining his silk gloves. ʹNow, if 
you will excuse me, I have better things to do than listen to adolescent 
agonising… good‐day to you.ʹ 
And he strolled to the edge of his frame and out of sight. 
ʹFine, go then!ʹ Harry bellowed at the empty frame. ʹAnd tell Dumbledore thanks 
for nothing!ʹ 
The empty canvas remained silent. Fuming, Harry dragged his trunk back to the 
foot of his bed, then threw himself face down on the moth‐eaten covers, his eyes 
shut, his body heavy and aching. 
He felt as though he had journeyed for miles and miles… it seemed impossible 
that less than twenty‐four hours ago Cho Chang had been approaching him 
under the mistletoe… he was so tired… he was scared to sleep… yet he did not 
know how long he could fight it… Dumbledore had told him to stay… that must 
mean he was allowed to sleep… but he was scared… what if it happened again? 
He was sinking into shadows… 
It was as though a film in his head had been waiting to start. He was walking 
down a deserted corridor towards a plain black door, past rough stone walls, 
torches, and an open doorway on to a flight of stone steps leading downstairs on 
the left… 
He reached the black door but could not open it… he stood gazing at it, desperate 
for entry… something he wanted with all his heart lay beyond… a prize beyond 
his dreams… if only his scar would stop prickling… then he would be able to 
think more clearly… 
ʹHarry,ʹ said Ronʹs voice, from far, far away, ʹMum says dinnerʹs ready, but sheʹll 
save you something if you want to stay in bed.ʹ 

Harry opened his eyes, but Ron had already left the room. 
He doesnʹt want to be on his own with me, Harry thought. Not after what he heard 
Moody say. 
He supposed none of them would want him there any more, now that they knew 
what was inside him. 
He would not go down to dinner; he would not inflict his company on them. He 
turned over on to his other side and, after a while, dropped back off to sleep. He 
woke much later, in the early hours of the morning, his insides aching with 
hunger and Ron snoring in the next bed. Squinting around the room, he saw the 
dark outline of Phineas Nigellus standing again in his portrait and it occurred to 
Harry that Dumbledore had probably sent Phineas Nigellus to watch over him, 
in case he attacked somebody else. 
The feeling of being unclean intensified. He half‐wished he had not obeyed 
Dumbledore… if this was how life was going to be for him in Grimmauld Place 
from now on, maybe he would be better off in Privet Drive after all. 
* 
Everybody else spent the following morning putting up Christmas decorations. 
Harry could not remember Sirius ever being in such a good mood; he was 
actually singing carols, apparently delighted that he was to have company over 
Christmas. Harry could hear his voice echoing up through the floor in the cold 
drawing room where he was sitting alone, watching the sky growing whiter 
outside the windows, threatening snow, all the time feeling a savage pleasure 
that he was giving the others the opportunity to keep talking about him, as they 
were bound to be doing. When he heard Mrs Weasley calling his name softly up 
the stairs around lunchtime, he retreated further upstairs and ignored her. 
Around six oʹclock in the evening the doorbell rang and Mrs Black started 
screaming again. Assuming that Mundungus or some other Order member had 
come to call, Harry merely settled himself more comfortably against the wall of 
Buckbeakʹs room where he was hiding, trying to ignore how hungry he felt as he 
fed dead rats to the Hippogriff. It came as a slight shock when somebody 
hammered hard on the door a few minutes later. 
ʹI know youʹre in there,ʹ said Hermioneʹs voice. ʹWill you please come out? 1 
want to talk to you.ʹ 

ʹWhat are you doing here?ʹ Harry asked her, pulling open the door as Buckbeak 
resumed his scratching at the straw‐strewn floor for any fragments of rat he may 
have dropped. ʹI thought you were skiing with your mum and dad?ʹ 
ʹWell, to tell the truth, skiingʹs not really my thing,ʹ said Hermione. ʹSo, Iʹve come 
here for Christmas.ʹ There was snow in her hair and her face was pink with cold. 
ʹBut donʹt tell Ron. I told him skiingʹs really good because he kept laughing so 
much. Mum and Dad are a bit disappointed, but Iʹve told them that everyone 
who is serious about the exams is staying at Hogwarts to study. They want me to 
do well, theyʹll understand. Anyway,ʹ she said briskly, ʹletʹs go to your bedroom, 
Ronʹs mum has lit a fire in there and sheʹs sent up sandwiches.ʹ 
Harry followed her back to the second floor. When he entered the bedroom, he 
was rather surprised to see both Ron and Ginny waiting for them, sitting on 
Ronʹs bed. 
ʹI came on the Knight Bus,ʹ said Hermione airily, pulling off her jacket before 
Harry had time to speak. ʹDumbledore told me what had happened first thing 
this morning, but I had to wait for term to end officially before setting off. 
Umbridge is already livid that you lot disappeared right under her nose, even 
though Dumbledore told her Mr Weasley was in St Mungoʹs and heʹd given you 
all permission to visit. So…ʺ 
She sat down next to Ginny, and the two girls and Ron all looked up at Harry. 
ʹHowʹre you feeling?ʹ asked Hermione. 
Tine,ʹ said Harry stiffly. 
ʹOh, donʹt lie, Harry,ʹ she said impatiently. ʹRon and Ginny say youʹve been 
hiding from everyone since you got back from St Mungoʹs.ʹ 
They do, do they?ʹ said Harry, glaring at Ron and Ginny. Ron looked down at his 
feet but Ginny seemed quite unabashed. 
ʹWell, you have!ʹ she said. ʹAnd you wonʹt look at any of us!ʹ 
ʹItʹs you lot who wonʹt look at me!ʹ said Harry angrily. 
ʹMaybe youʹre taking it in turns to look, and keep missing each other,ʹ suggested 
Hermione, the corners of her mouth twitching. 

ʹVery funny,ʹ snapped Harry, turning away. 
ʹOh, stop feeling all misunderstood,ʹ said Hermione sharply. ʹLook, the others 
have told me what you overheard last night on the Extendable Ears ‐ʹ 
ʹYeah?ʹ growled Harry, his hands deep in his pockets as he watched the snow 
now falling thickly outside. ʹAll been talking about me, have you? Well, Iʹm 
getting used to it.ʹ 
ʹWe wanted to talk to you, Harry,ʹ said Ginny, ʹbut as youʹve been hiding ever 
since we got back ‐ʹ 
ʹI didnʹt want anyone to talk to me,ʹ said Harry, who was feeling more and more 
nettled. 
ʹWell, that was a bit stupid of you,ʹ said Ginny angrily, ʹseeing as you donʹt know 
anyone but me whoʹs been possessed by You‐Know‐Who, and I can tell you how 
it feels.ʹ 
Harry remained quite still as the impact of these words hit him. Then he wheeled 
round. 
ʹI forgot,ʹ he said. 
ʹLucky you,ʹ said Ginny coolly. 
ʹIʹm sorryʹ Harry said, and he meant it. ʹSo… so, do you think Iʹm being 
possessed, then?ʹ 
ʹWell, can you remember everything youʹve been doing?ʹ Ginny asked. ʹAre there 
big blank periods where you donʹt know what youʹve been up to?ʹ 
Harry racked his brains. 
ʹNo,ʹ he said. 
Then You‐Know‐Who hasnʹt ever possessed you,ʹ said Ginny simply. ʹWhen he 
did it to me, I couldnʹt remember what Iʹd been doing for hours at a time. Iʹd find 
myself somewhere and not know how I got there.ʹ 

Harry hardly dared believe her, yet his heart was lightening almost in spite of 
himself. 
ʹThat dream I had about your dad and the snake, though —ʹ 
ʹHarry youʹve had these dreams before,ʹ Hermione said. ʹYou had flashes of what 
Voldemort was up to last year.ʹ 
This was different,ʹ said Harry, shaking his head. ʹI was inside that snake. It was 
like I was the snake… what if Voldemort somehow transported me to London —
?ʹ 
ʹOne day,ʹ said Hermione, sounding thoroughly exasperated, ʹyouʹll read 
Hogwarts: A History, and perhaps it will remind you that you canʹt Apparate or 
Disapparate inside Hogwarts. Even Voldemort couldnʹt just make you fly out of 
your dormitory, Harry.ʹ 
ʹYou didnʹt leave your bed, mate,ʹ said Ron. ʹI saw you thrashing around in your 
sleep for at least a minute before we could wake you up.ʹ 
Harry started pacing up and down the room again, thinking. What they were all 
saying was not only comforting, it made sense… without really thinking, he took 
a sandwich from the plate on the bed and crammed it hungrily into his mouth. 
Iʹm not the weapon after all, thought Harry. His heart swelled with happiness and 
relief, and he felt like joining in as they heard 
Sirius tramping past their door towards Buckbeakʹs room, singing ʹGod Rest Ye, 
Merry Hippogriffsʹ at the top of his voice. 
* 
How could he have dreamed of returning to Privet Drive for Christmas? Siriusʹs 
delight at having the house full again, and especially at having Harry back, was 
infectious. He was no longer their sullen host of the summer; now he seemed 
determined that everyone should enjoy themselves as much, if not more than 
they would have done at Hogwarts, and he worked tirelessly in the run‐up to 
Christmas Day, cleaning and decorating with their help, so that by the time they 
all went to bed on Christmas Eve the house was barely recognisable. The 
tarnished chandeliers were no longer hung with cobwebs but with garlands of 
holly and gold and silver streamers; magical snow glittered in heaps over the 

threadbare carpets; a great Christmas tree, obtained by Mundungus and 
decorated with live fairies, blocked Siriusʹs family tree from view, and even the 
stuffed elf‐heads on the hall wall wore Father Christmas hats and beards. 
Harry awoke on Christmas morning to find a stack of presents at the foot of his 
bed and Ron already halfway through opening his own, rather larger, pile. 
ʹGood haul this year,ʹ he informed Harry through a cloud of paper. Thanks for 
the Broom Compass, itʹs excellent; beats Hermiones ‐ she got me a homework 
planner ‐
Harry sorted through his presents and found one with Hermiones handwriting 
on it. She had given him, too, a book that resembled a diary except that every 
time he opened a page it said aloud things like: ʹDo it today or later youʹll pay!ʹ 
Sirius and Lupin had given Harry a set of excellent books entitled Practical 
Defensive Magic and its Use Against the Dark Arts, which had superb, moving 
colour illustrations of all the counter‐jinxes and hexes it described. Harry flicked 
through the first volume eagerly; he could see it was going to be highly useful in 
his plans for the DA. Hagrid had sent a furry brown wallet that had fangs, which 
were presumably supposed to be an anti‐theft device, but unfortunately 
prevented Harry putting any money in without getting his fingers ripped off. 
Tonkss present was a small, working model of a Firebolt, which Harry watched 
fly around the room, wishing he still had his full‐size version; Ron had given him 
an enormous box of Every‐Flavour Beans, Mr and Mrs Weasley the usual hand‐
knitted jumper and some mince pies, and Dobby a truly dreadful painting that 
Harry suspected had been done by the elf himself. He had just turned it upside‐
down to see whether it looked better that way when, with a loud crack, Fred and 
George Apparated at the foot of his bed. 
ʹMerry Christmas,ʹ said George. ʹDonʹt go downstairs for a bit.ʹ 
ʹWhy not?ʹ said Ron. 
ʹMumʹs crying again,ʹ said Fred heavily. ʹPercy sent back his Christmas jumper.ʹ 
ʹWithout a note,ʹ added George. ʹHasnʹt asked how Dad is or visited him or 
anything.ʹ 
ʹWe tried to comfort her,ʹ said Fred, moving around the bed to look at Harryʹs 
portrait. Told her Percyʹs nothing more than a humungous pile of rat droppings.ʹ 

ʹDidnʹt work,ʹ said George, helping himself to a Chocolate Frog. ʹSo Lupin took 
over. Best let him cheer her up before we go down for breakfast, I reckon.ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs that supposed to be, anyway?ʹ asked Fred, squinting at Dobbyʹs painting. 
ʹLooks like a gibbon with two black eyes.ʹ 
ʹItʹs Harry!ʹ said George, pointing at the back of the picture, ʹsays so on the back!ʹ 
ʹGood likeness,ʹ said Fred, grinning. Harry threw his new homework diary at 
him; it hit the wall opposite and fell to the floor where it said happily: ʹIf youʹve 
dotted the ʺiʺs and crossed the ʺtʺs then you may do whatever you please!ʹ 
They got up and dressed. They could hear the various inhabitants of the house 
calling ʹMerry Christmasʹ to one another. On their way downstairs they met 
Hermione. 
Thanks for the book, Harryʹ she said happily. ʹIʹve been wanting that New Theory 
oj Numerology for ages! And that perfumeʹs really unusual, Ron.ʹ 
ʹNo problem,ʹ said Ron. ʹWhoʹs that for, anyway?ʹ he added, nodding at the 
neatly wrapped present she was carrying. 
ʹKreacher,ʹ said Hermione brightly. ;> 
ʹIt had better not be clothes!ʹ Ron warned her. ʹYou know what Sirius said: 
Kreacher knows too much, we canʹt set him free!ʹ 
ʹIt isnʹt clothes,ʹ said Hermione, ʹalthough if I had my way Iʹd certainly give him 
something to wear other than that filthy old rag. No, itʹs a patchwork quilt, I 
thought it would brighten up his bedroom.ʹ 
ʹWhat bedroom?ʹ said Harry, dropping his voice to a whisper as they were 
passing the portrait of Siriusʹs mother. 
ʹWell, Sirius says itʹs not so much a bedroom, more a kind of ‐den,ʹ said 
Hermione. ʹApparently he sleeps under the boiler in that cupboard off the 
kitchen.ʹ 
Mrs Weasley was the only person in the basement when they arrived there. She 
was standing at the stove and sounded as though she had a bad head cold as she 
wished them ʹMerry Christmasʹ, and they all averted their eyes. 

ʹSo, is this Kreacherʹs bedroom?ʹ said Ron, strolling over to a dingy door in the 
corner opposite the pantry. Harry had never seen it open. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Hermione, now sounding a little nervous. ʹEr… I think weʹd better 
knock.ʹ 
Ron rapped on the door with his knuckles but there was no reply. 
ʹHe must be sneaking around upstairs,ʹ he said, and without further ado pulled 
open the door. ʹUrgh!ʹ 
Harry peered inside. Most of the cupboard was taken up with a very large and 
old‐fashioned boiler, but in the foot of space underneath the pipes Kreacher had 
made himself something that looked like a nest. A jumble of assorted rags and 
smelly old blankets were piled on the floor and the small dent in the middle of it 
showed where Kreacher curled up to sleep every night. Here and there among 
the material were stale bread crusts and mouldy old bits of cheese. In a far corner 
glinted small objects and coins that Harry guessed Kreacher had saved, magpie‐
like, from Siriusʹs purge of the house, and he had also managed to retrieve the 
silver‐framed family photographs that Sirius had thrown away over the summer. 
Their glass might be shattered, but still the little black‐and‐white people inside 
them peered up at him haughtily, including ‐ he felt a little jolt in his stomach ‐ 
the dark, heavy‐lidded woman whose trial he had witnessed in Dumbledoreʹs 
Pensieve: Bellatrix Lestrange. By the looks of it, hers was Kreacherʹs favourite 
photograph; he had placed it to the fore of all the others and had mended the 
glass clumsily with Spellotape. 
ʹI think Iʹll just leave his present here,ʹ said Hermione, laying the package neatly 
in the middle of the depression in the rags and blankets and closing the door 
quietly. ʹHeʹll find it later, thatʹll be fine.ʹ 
ʹCome to think of it,ʹ said Sirius, emerging from the pantry carrying a large 
turkey as they closed the cupboard door, ʹhas anyone actually seen Kreacher 
lately?ʹ 
ʹI havenʹt seen him since the night we came back here,ʹ said Harry. ʹYou were 
ordering him out of the kitchen.ʹ 
ʹYeah…ʹ said Sirius, frowning. ʹYou know, I think thatʹs the last time I saw him, 
too… he must be hiding upstairs somewhere.ʹ 

ʹHe couldnʹt have left, could he?ʹ said Harry. ʹI mean, when you said ʺoutʺ, 
maybe he thought you meant get out of the house?ʹ 
ʹNo, no, house‐elves canʹt leave unless theyʹre given clothes. Theyʹre tied to their 
familyʹs house,ʹ said Sirius. 
They can leave the house if they really want to,ʹ Harry contradicted him. ʹDobby 
did, he left the Malfoysʹ to give me warnings two years ago. He had to punish 
himself afterwards, but he still managed it.ʹ 
Sirius looked slightly disconcerted for a moment, then said, Til look for him later, 
I expect Iʹll find him upstairs crying his eyes out over my motherʹs old bloomers 
or something. Of course, he might have crawled into the airing cupboard and 
died… but 1 mustnʹt get my hopes up.ʹ 
Fred, George and Ron laughed; Hermione, however, looked reproachful. j 
Once they had eaten their Christmas lunch, the Weasleys, Harry and Hermione 
were planning to pay Mr Weasley another visit, escorted by Mad‐Eye and Lupin. 
Mundungus turned up in time for Christmas pudding and trifle, having 
managed to ʹborrowʹ a car for the occasion, as the Underground did not run on 
Christmas Day. The car, which Harry doubted very much had been taken with 
the consent of its owner, had been enlarged with a spell like the Weasleysʹ old 
Ford Anglia had once been. Although normally proportioned outside, ten people 
with Mundungus driving were able to fit into it quite comfortably. Mrs Weasley 
hesitated before getting inside ‐ Harry knew her disapproval of Mundungus was 
battling with her dislike of travelling without magic ‐ but, finally, the cold 
outside and her childrenʹs pleading triumphed, and she settled herself into the 
back seat between Fred and Bill with good grace. 
The journey to St Mungoʹs was quite quick as there was very little traffic on the 
roads. A small trickle of witches and wizards was creeping furtively up the 
otherwise deserted street to visit the hospital. Harry and the others got out of the 
car, and Mundungus drove off around the corner to wait for them. They strolled 
casually towards the window where the dummy in green nylon stood, then, one 
by one, stepped through the glass. 
The reception area looked pleasantly festive: the crystal orbs that illuminated St 
Mungoʹs had been coloured red and gold to become gigantic, glowing Christmas 
baubles; holly hung around every doorway; and shining white Christmas trees 

covered in magical snow and icicles glittered in every corner, each one topped 
with a gleaming gold star. It was less crowded than the last time they had been 
there, although halfway across the room Harry found himself shunted aside by a 
witch with a satsuma jammed up her left nostril. 
ʹFamily argument, eh?ʹ smirked the blonde witch behind the desk. ʹYouʹre the 
third Iʹve seen today… Spell Damage, fourth floor.ʹ 
They found Mr Weasley propped up in bed with the remains of his turkey 
dinner on a tray on his lap and a rather sheepish expression on his face. 
ʹEverything all right, Arthur?ʹ asked Mrs Weasley, after they had all greeted Mr 
Weasley and handed over their presents. 
ʹFine, fine,ʹ said Mr Weasley, a little too heartily. ʹYou — er — havenʹt seen 
Healer Smethwyck, have you?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Mrs Weasley suspiciously, ʹwhy?ʹ 
ʹNothing, nothing,ʹ said Mr Weasley airily, starting to unwrap his pile of gifts. 
ʹWell, everyone had a good day? What did you all get for Christmas? Oh, Harry ‐ 
this is absolutely wonderful!ʹ For he had just opened Harryʹs gift of fuse‐wire 
and screwdrivers. 
Mrs Weasley did not seem entirely satisfied with Mr Weasleyʹs answer. As her 
husband leaned over to shake Harryʹs hand, she peered at the bandaging under 
his nightshirt. 
ʹArthur,ʹ she said, with a snap in her voice like a mousetrap, ʹyouʹve had your 
bandages changed. Why have you had your bandages changed a day early, 
Arthur? They told me they wouldnʹt need doing until tomorrow.ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Mr Weasley, looking rather frightened and pulling the bed covers 
higher up his chest. ʹNo, no ‐ itʹs nothing ‐ itʹs ‐l‐
He seemed to deflate under Mrs Weasleyʹs piercing gaze. 
ʹWell ‐ now donʹt get upset, Molly, but Augustus Pye had an idea… heʹs the 
Trainee Healer, you know, lovely young chap and very interested in… um… 
complementary medicine… 1 mean, some of these old Muggle remedies… well, 
theyʹre called stitches, Molly, and they work very well on ‐ on Muggle wounds ‐ʹ 

Mrs Weasley let out an ominous noise somewhere between a shriek and a snarl. 
Lupin strolled away from the bed and over to the werewolf, who had no visitors 
and was looking rather wistfully at the crowd around Mr Weasley; Bill muttered 
something about getting himself a cup of tea and Fred and George leapt up to 
accompany him, grinning. 
ʹDo you mean to tell me,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, her voice growing louder with every 
word and apparently unaware that her fellow visitors were scurrying for cover, 
ʹthat you have been messing about with Muggle remedies?ʹ 
ʹNot messing about, Molly, dear,ʹ said Mr Weasley imploringly, ʹit was just ‐ just 
something Pye and I thought weʹd try ‐ only, most unfortunately — well, with 
these particular kinds of wounds ‐ it doesnʹt seem to work as well as weʹd hoped 
‐ʹ 
ʹMeaning?ʹ
ʹWell… well, 1 donʹt know whether you know what ‐ what stitches are?ʹ 
ʹIt sounds as though youʹve been trying to sew your skin back together,ʹ said Mrs 
Weasley with a snort of mirthless laughter, ʹbut even you, Arthur, wouldnʹt be 
that stupid —ʹ 
ʹI fancy a cup of tea, too,ʹ said Harry, jumping to his feet. 
Hermione, Ron and Ginny almost sprinted to the door with him. As it swung 
closed behind them, they heard Mrs Weasley shriek, ʹWHAT DO YOU MEAN, 
THATʹS THE GENERAL IDEA?ʹ 
Typical Dad,ʹ said Ginny, shaking her head as they set off up the corridor. 
ʹStitches… I ask you…ʹ 
ʹWell, you know, they do work well on non‐magical wounds,ʹ said Hermione 
fairly. ʹI suppose something in that snakeʹs venom dissolves them or something. I 
wonder where the tearoom is?ʹ 
ʹFifth floor,ʹ said Harry, remembering the sign over the welcomewitchʹs desk. 
They walked along the corridor, through a set of double doors and found a 
rickety staircase lined with more portraits of brutal‐looking Healers. As they 
climbed it, the various Healers called out to them, diagnosing odd complaints 

and suggesting horrible remedies. Ron was seriously affronted when a medieval 
wizard called out that he clearly had a bad case of spattergroit. 
ʹAnd whatʹs that supposed to be?ʹ he asked angrily, as the Healer pursued him 
through six more portraits, shoving the occupants out of the way. 
ʹTis a most grievous affliction of the skin, young master, that will leave you 
pockmarked and more gruesome even than you are now ‐ʹ 
ʹWatch who youʹre calling gruesome!ʹ said Ron, his ears turning red. 
ʹ‐ the only remedy is to take the liver of a toad, bind it tight about your throat, 
stand naked at the full moon in a barrel of eelsʹ eyes ‐ʹ 
ʹI have not got spattergroit!ʹ 
ʹBut the unsightly blemishes upon your visage, young master ‐ʹ 
Theyʹre freckles!ʹ said Ron furiously. ʹNow get back in your own picture and 
leave me alone!ʹ 
He rounded on the others, who were all keeping determinedly straight faces. 
ʹWhat floorʹs this?ʹ 
ʹI think itʹs the fifth,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹNah, itʹs the fourth,ʹ said Harry, ʹone more —ʹ 
But as he stepped on to the landing he came to an abrupt halt, staring at the 
small window set into the double doors that marked the start of a corridor 
signposted SPELL DAMAGE. A man was peering out at them all with his nose 
pressed against the glass. He had wavy blond hair, bright blue eyes and a broad 
vacant smile that revealed dazzlingly white teeth. 
ʹBlimey!ʹ said Ron, also staring at the man. 
ʹOh, my goodness,ʹ said Hermione suddenly, sounding breathless. ʹProfessor 
Lockhart!ʹ 
Their ex‐Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher pushed open the doors and 
moved towards them, wearing a long lilac dressing gown. 

ʹWell, hello there!ʹ he said. ʹI expect youʹd like my autograph, would you?ʹ 
ʹHasnʹt changed much, has he?ʹ Harry muttered to Ginny, who grinned. 
ʹEr — how are you, Professor?ʹ said Ron, sounding slightly guilty. It had been 
Ronʹs malfunctioning wand that had damaged Professor Lockhartʹs memory so 
badly that he had landed in St Mungoʹs in the first place, though as Lockhart had 
been attempting to permanently wipe Harry and Ronʹs memories at the time, 
Harrys sympathy was limited. 
ʹIʹm very well indeed, thank you!ʹ said Lockhart exuberantly, pulling a rather 
battered peacock‐feather quill from his pocket. ʹNow, how many autographs 
would you like? I can do joined‐up writing now, you know!ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ we donʹt want any at the moment, thanks,ʹ said Ron, raising his eyebrows at 
Harry, who asked, ʹProfessor, should you be wandering around the corridors? 
Shouldnʹt you be in a ward?ʹ 
The smile faded slowly from Lockhartʹs face. For a few moments he gazed 
intently at Harry, then he said, ʹHavenʹt we met?ʹ 
ʹEr… yeah, we have,ʹ said Harry. ʹYou used to teach us at Hogwarts, remember?ʹ 
Teach?ʹ repeated Lockhart, looking faintly unsettled. ʹMe? Did I?ʹ 
And then the smile reappeared upon his face so suddenly it was rather alarming. 
Taught you everything you know, I expect, did I? Well, how about those 
autographs, then? Shall we say a round dozen, you can give them to all your 
little friends then and nobody will be left out!ʹ 
But just then a head poked out of a door at the far end of the corridor and a voice 
called, ʹGilderoy, you naughty boy, where have you wandered off to?ʹ 
A motherly‐looking Healer wearing a tinsel wreath in her hair came bustling up 
the corridor, smiling warmly at Harry and the others. 
ʹOh, Gilderoy, youʹve got visitors! How lovely, and on Christmas Day, too! Do 
you know, he never gets visitors, poor lamb, and I canʹt think why, heʹs such a 
sweetie, arenʹt you?ʹ 

ʹWeʹre doing autographs!ʹ Gilderoy told the Healer with another glittering smile. 
They want loads of them, wonʹt take no for an answer! I just hope weʹve got 
enough photographs!ʹ 
ʹListen to him,ʹ said the Healer, taking Lockhartʹs arm and beaming fondly at him 
as though he were a precocious two‐year‐old. ʹHe was rather well known a few 
years ago; we very much hope that this liking for giving autographs is a sign that 
his memory might be starting to come back. Will you step this way? Heʹs in a 
closed ward, you know, he must have slipped out while I was bringing in the 
Christmas presents, the doorʹs usually kept locked… not that heʹs dangerous! 
But,ʹ she lowered her voice to a whisper, ʹheʹs a bit of a danger to himself, bless 
him… doesnʹt know who he is, you see, wanders off and canʹt remember how to 
get back… it is nice of you to have come to see him.ʹ 
ʹEr,ʹ said Ron, gesturing uselessly at the floor above, ʹactually, we were just — er ‐
ʹ 
But the Healer was smiling expectantly at them, and Ronʹs feeble mutter of 
ʹgoing to have a cup of teaʹ trailed away into nothingness. They looked at each 
other helplessly, then followed Lockhart and his Healer along the corridor. 
ʹLetʹs not stay long,ʹ Ron said quietly. 
The Healer pointed her wand at the door of the Janus Thickey Ward and 
muttered, ʹAlohomora.ʹ The door swung open and she led the way inside, keeping 
a firm grasp on Gilderoys arm until she had settled him into an armchair beside 
his bed. 
This is our long‐term residentsʹ ward,ʹ she informed Harry, Ron, 
Hermione and Ginny in a low voice. ʹFor permanent spell damage, you know. Of 
course, with intensive remedial potions and charms and a bit of luck, we can 
produce some improvement. Gilderoy does seem to be getting back some sense 
of himself; and weʹve seen a real improvement in Mr Bode, he seems to be 
regaining the power of speech very well, though he isnʹt speaking any language 
we recognise yet. Well, 1 must finish giving out the Christmas presents, Iʹll leave 
you all to chat.ʹ 
Harry looked around. The ward bore unmistakeable signs of being a permanent 
home to its residents. They had many more personal effects around their beds 
than in Mr Weasleyʹs ward; the wall around Gilderoyʹs headboard, for instance, 

was papered with pictures of himself, all beaming toothily and waving at the 
new arrivals. He had autographed many of them to himself in disjointed, 
childish writing. The moment he had been deposited in his chair by the Healer, 
Gilderoy pulled a fresh stack of photographs towards him, seized a quill and 
started signing them all feverishly. 
ʹYou can put them in envelopes,ʹ he said to Ginny, throwing the signed pictures 
into her lap one by one as he finished them. ʹI am not forgotten, you know, no, I 
still receive a very great deal of fan mail… Gladys Gudgeon writes weekly … 1 
just wish I knew why He paused, looking faintly puzzled, then beamed again and 
returned to his signing with renewed vigour. ʹ1 suspect it is simply my good 
looks…ʹ 
A sallow‐skinned, mournful‐looking wizard lay in the bed opposite staring at the 
ceiling; he was mumbling to himself and seemed quite unaware of anything 
around him. Two beds along was a woman whose entire head was covered in 
fur; Harry remembered something similar happening to Hermione during their 
second year, although fortunately the damage, in her case, had not been 
permanent. At the far end of the ward flowery curtains had been drawn around 
two beds to give the occupants and their visitors some privacy. 
ʹHere you are, Agnes,ʹ said the Healer brightly to the furry‐faced woman, 
handing her a small pile of Christmas presents. ʹSee, not forgotten, are you? And 
your sonʹs sent an owl to say heʹs visiting tonight, so thatʹs nice, isnʹt it?ʹ 
Agnes gave several loud barks. 
ʹAnd look, Broderick, youʹve been sent a pot plant and a lovely calendar with a 
different fancy Hippogriff for each month; theyʹll brighten things up, wonʹt 
they?ʹ said the Healer, bustling along to the mumbling man, setting a rather ugly 
plant with long, swaying tentacles on the bedside cabinet and fixing the calendar 
to the wall with her wand. ʹAnd ‐ oh, Mrs Longbottom, are you leaving already?ʹ 
Harryʹs head span round. The curtains had been drawn back from the two beds 
at the end of the ward and two visitors were walking back down the aisle 
between the beds: a formidable‐looking old witch wearing a long green dress, a 
moth‐eaten fox fur and a pointed hat decorated with what was unmistakeably a 
stuffed vulture and, trailing behind her looking thoroughly depressed ‐ Neville. 

With a sudden rush of understanding, Harry realised who the people in the end 
beds must be. He cast around wildly for some means of distracting the others so 
that Neville could leave the ward unnoticed and unquestioned, but Ron had also 
looked up at the sound of the name ʹLongbottomʹ, and before Harry could stop 
him had called out, ʹNeville!ʹ 
Neville jumped and cowered as though a bullet had narrowly missed him. 
ʹItʹs us, Neville!ʹ said Ron brightly, getting to his feet. ʹHave you seen ‐? 
Lockhartʹs here! Whoʹve you been visiting?ʹ 
ʹFriends of yours, Neville, dear?ʹ said Nevilleʹs grandmother graciously, bearing 
down upon them all. 
Neville looked as though he would rather be anywhere in the world but here. A 
dull purple flush was creeping up his plump face and he was not making eye 
contact with any of them. 
ʹAh, yes,ʹ said his grandmother, looking closely at Harry and sticking out a 
shrivelled, clawlike hand for him to shake. ʹYes, yes, I know who you are, of 
course. Neville speaks most highly of you.ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ thanks,ʹ said Harry, shaking hands. Neville did not look at him, but 
surveyed his own feet, the colour deepening in his face all the while. 
ʹAnd you two are clearly Weasleys,ʹ Mrs Longbottom continued, proffering her 
hand regally to Ron and Ginny in turn. ʹYes, I know your parents — not well, of 
course — but fine people, fine people… and you must be Hermione Granger?ʹ 
Hermione looked rather startled that Mrs Longbottom knew her name, but 
shook hands all the same. 
ʹYes, Nevilleʹs told me all about you. Helped him out of a few sticky spots, 
havenʹt you? Heʹs a good boy,ʹ she said, casting a sternly appraising look down 
her rather bony nose at Neville, ʹbut he hasnʹt got his fatherʹs talent, Iʹm afraid to 
say.ʹ And she jerked her head in the direction of the two beds at the end of the 
ward, so that the stuffed vulture on her hat trembled alarmingly. 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Ron, looking amazed. (Harry wanted to stamp on Ronʹs foot, but 
that sort of thing is much harder to bring off unnoticed when youʹre wearing 
jeans rather than robes.) ʹIs that your dad down the end, Neville?ʹ 

ʹWhatʹs this?ʹ said Mrs Longbottom sharply. ʹHavenʹt you told your friends about 
your parents, Neville?ʹ 
Neville took a deep breath, looked up at the ceiling and shook his head. Harry 
could not remember ever feeling sorrier for anyone, but he could not think of any 
way of helping Neville out of the situation. 
ʹWell, itʹs nothing to be ashamed of!ʹ said Mrs Longbottom angrily. ʹYou should 
be proud, Neville, proudl They didnʹt give their health and their sanity so their 
only son would be ashamed of them, you know!ʹ 
ʹIʹm not ashamed,ʹ said Neville, very faintly, still looking anywhere but at Harry 
and the others. Ron was now standing on tiptoe to look over at the inhabitants of 
the two beds. 
ʹWell, youʹve got a funny way of showing it!ʹ said Mrs Longbottom. ʹMy son and 
his wife,ʹ she said, turning haughtily to Harry, Ron, Hermione and Ginny, ʹwere 
tortured into insanity by You‐Know‐Whoʹs followers.ʹ 
Hermione and Ginny both clapped their hands over their mouths. Ron stopped 
craning his neck to catch a glimpse of Nevilleʹs parents and looked mortified. 
They were Aurors, you know, and very well respected within the wizarding 
communityʹ Mrs Longbottom went on. ʹHighly gifted, the pair of them. I ‐ yes, 
Alice dear, what is it?ʹ 
Nevilleʹs mother had come edging down the ward in her nightdress. She no 
longer had the plump, happy‐looking face Harry had seen in Moodyʹs old 
photograph of the original Order of the Phoenix. Her face was thin and worn 
now, her eyes seemed overlarge and her hair, which had turned white, was 
wispy and dead‐looking. She did not seem to want to speak, or perhaps she was 
not able to, but she made timid motions towards Neville, holding something in 
her outstretched hand. 
ʹAgain?ʹ said Mrs Longbottom, sounding slightly weary. ʹVery well, Alice dear, 
very well ‐ Neville, take it, whatever it is.ʹ 
But Neville had already stretched out his hand, into which his mother dropped 
an empty Droobleʹs Best Blowing Gum wrapper. 

ʹVery nice, dear,ʹ said Nevilleʹs grandmother in a falsely cheery voice, patting his 
mother on the shoulder. 
But Neville said quietly, Thanks, Mum.ʹ 
His mother tottered away, back up the ward, humming to herself. Neville looked 
around at the others, his expression defiant, as though daring them to laugh, but 
Harry did not think heʹd ever found anything less funny in his life. 
ʹWell, weʹd better get back,ʹ sighed Mrs Longbottom, drawing on long green 
gloves. ʹVery nice to have met you all. Neville, put that wrapper in the bin, she 
must have given you enough of them to paper your bedroom by now.ʹ 
But as they left, Harry was sure he saw Neville slip the sweet wrapper into his 
pocket. 
The door closed behind them. 
ʹI never knew,ʹ said Hermione, who looked tearful. 
ʹNor did I,ʹ said Ron rather hoarsely. 
ʹNor me,ʹ whispered Ginny. 
They all looked at Harry. 
ʹI did,ʹ he said glumly. ʹDumbledore told me but I promised I wouldnʹt tell 
anyone… thatʹs what Bellatrix Lestrange got sent to Azkaban for, using the 
Cruciatus Curse on Nevilleʹs parents until they lost their minds.ʹ 
ʹBellatrix Lestrange did that?ʹ whispered Hermione, horrified. That woman 
Kreacherʹs got a photo of in his den?ʹ 
There was a long silence, broken by Lockharts angry voice. 
ʹLook, I didnʹt learn joined‐up writing for nothing, you know!ʹ 
— CHAPTER TWENTY‐THREE — 
Christmas on the Closed Ward

Was this why Dumbledore would no longer meet Harryʹs eyes? Did he expect to 
see Voldemort staring out of them, afraid, perhaps, that their vivid green might 
turn suddenly to scarlet, with catlike slits for pupils? Harry remembered how the 
snakelike face of Voldemort had once forced itself out of the back of Professor 
Quirrellʹs head and ran his hand over the back of his own, wondering what it 
would feel like if Voldemort burst out of his skull. 
He felt dirty, contaminated, as though he were carrying some deadly germ, 
unworthy to sit on the Underground train back from the hospital with innocent, 
clean people whose minds and bodies were free of the taint of Voldemort… he 
had not merely seen the snake, he had been the snake, he knew it now… 
A truly terrible thought then occurred to him, a memory bobbing to the surface 
of his mind, one that made his insides writhe and squirm like serpents. 
Whatʹs he after, apart from followers?
Stuff he can only get by stealth… like a weapon. Something he didnʹt have last time.
Iʹm the weapon, Harry thought, and it was as though poison were pumping 
through his veins, chilling him, bringing him out in a sweat as he swayed with 
the train through the dark tunnel. Iʹm the one Voldemorts trying to use, thatʹs 
why theyʹve got guards around me everywhere I go, itʹs not for my protection, 
itʹs for other peopleʹs, only itʹs not working, they canʹt have someone on me all 
the time at Hogwarts… I did attack Mr Weasley last night, it was me. Voldemort 
made me do it and he could be inside me, listening to my thoughts right now ‐ 
ʹAre you all right, Harry, dear?ʹ whispered Mrs Weasley leaning across Ginny to 
speak to him as the train rattled along through its dark tunnel. ʹYou donʹt look 
very well. Are you feeling sick?ʹ 
They were all watching him. He shook his head violently and stared up at an 
advertisement for home insurance. 
ʹHarry, dear, are you sure youʹre all right?ʹ said Mrs Weasley in a worried voice, 
as they walked around the unkempt patch of grass in the middle of Grimmauld 
Place. ʹYou look ever so pale… are you sure you slept this morning? You go 
upstairs to bed right now and you can have a couple of hours of sleep before 
dinner, all right?ʹ 

He nodded; here was a ready‐made excuse not to talk to any of the others, which 
was precisely what he wanted, so when she opened the front door he hurried 
straight past the trollʹs‐leg umbrella stand, up the stairs and into his and Ronʹs 
bedroom. 
Here, he began to pace up and down, past the two beds and Phineas Nigellusʹs 
empty picture frame, his brain teeming and seething with questions and ever 
more dreadful ideas. 
How had he become a snake? Perhaps he was an Animagus… no, he couldnʹt be, 
he would know… perhaps Voldemort was an Animagus… yes, thought Harry, 
that would fit, he would turn into a snake of course… and when heʹs possessing 
me, then we both transform… that still doesnʹt explain how I got to London and 
back to my bed in the space of about five minutes… but then Voldemortʹs about 
the most powerful wizard in the world, apart from Dumbledore, itʹs probably no 
problem at all to him to transport people like that. 
And then, with a terrible stab of panic, he thought, but this is insane ‐ if 
Voldemortʹs possessing me, Iʹm giving him a dear view into the Headquarters of the 
Order of the Phoenix right now! Heʹll know whoʹs in the Order and where Sirius is… 
and Iʹve heard loads of stuff I shouldnʹt have, everything Sirius told me the first night I 
was here… 
There was only one thing for it: he would have to leave Grimmauld Place 
straightaway. He would spend Christmas at 
Hogwarts without the others, which would keep them safe over the holidays at 
least… but no, that wouldnʹt do, there were still plenty of people at Hogwarts to 
maim and injure. What if it was Seamus, Dean or Neville next time? He stopped 
his pacing and stood staring at Phineas Nigellusʹs empty frame. A leaden 
sensation was settling in the pit of his stomach. He had no alternative: he was 
going to have to return to Privet Drive, cut himself off from other wizards 
entirely. 
Well, if he had to do it, he thought, there was no point hanging around. Trying 
with all his might not to think how the Dursleys were going to react when they 
found him on their doorstep six months earlier than they had expected, he strode 
over to his trunk, slammed the lid shut and locked it, then glanced around 
automatically for Hedwig before remembering that she was still at Hogwarts ‐ 
well, her cage would be one less thing to carry ‐ he seized one end of his trunk 

and had dragged it halfway towards the door when a snide voice said, ʹRunning 
away, are we?ʹ 
He looked around. Phineas Nigellus had appeared on the canvas of his portrait 
and was leaning against the frame, watching Harry with an amused expression 
on his face. 
ʹNot running away, no,ʹ said Harry shortly, dragging his trunk a few more feet 
across the room. 
ʹI thought,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus, stroking his pointed beard, ʹthat to belong in 
Gryffindor house you were supposed to be brave! It looks to me as though you 
would have been better off in my own house. We Slytherins are brave, yes, but 
not stupid. For instance, given the choice, we will always choose to save our own 
necks.ʹ 
ʹItʹs not my own neck Iʹm saving,ʹ said Harry tersely, tugging the trunk over a 
patch of particularly uneven, moth‐eaten carpet right in front of the door. 
ʹOh, I see,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus, still stroking his beard, ʹthis is no cowardly 
flight ‐ you are being noble.ʹ 
Harry ignored him. His hand was on the doorknob when Phineas Nigellus said 
lazily, ʹI have a message for you from Albus Dumbledore.ʹ 
Harry span round. 
ʹWhat is it?ʹ 
ʹʺStay where you are.ʺʹ 
ʹI havenʹt moved!ʹ said Harry, his hand still upon the doorknob. ʹSo whatʹs the 
message?ʹ 
ʹI have just given it to you, dolt,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus smoothly. ʹDumbledore 
says, ʺStay where you are.ʹʺ
ʹWhy?ʹ said Harry eagerly, dropping the end of his trunk. ʹWhy does he want me 
to stay? What else did he say?ʹ 

ʹNothing whatsoever,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus, raising a thin black eyebrow as 
though he found Harry impertinent. 
Harryʹs temper rose to the surface like a snake rearing from long grass. He was 
exhausted, he was confused beyond measure, he had experienced terror, relief, 
then terror again in the last twelve hours, and still Dumbledore did not want to 
talk to him! 
ʹSo thatʹs it, is it?ʹ he said loudly. ʹʺStay where you areʺ! Thatʹs all anyone could tell 
me after I got attacked by those Dementors, too! Just stay put while the grown‐
ups sort it out, Harry! We wonʹt bother telling you anything, though, because 
your tiny little brain might not be able to cope with it!ʹ 
ʹYou know,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus, even more loudly than Harry ʹthis is precisely 
why I loathed being a teacher! Young people are so infernally convinced that they 
are absolutely right about everything. Has it not occurred to you, my poor 
puffed‐up popinjay, that there might be an excellent reason why the Headmaster 
of Hogwarts is not confiding every tiny detail of his plans to you? Have you 
never paused, while feeling hard‐done‐by, to note that following Dumbledores 
orders has never yet led you into harm? No. No, like all young people, you are 
quite sure that you alone feel and think, you alone recognise danger, you alone 
are the only one clever enough to realise what the Dark Lord may be planning ‐ʹ 
ʹHe is planning something to do with me, then?ʹ said Harry swiftly. 
ʹDid I say that?ʹ said Phineas Nigellus, idly examining his silk gloves. ʹNow, if 
you will excuse me, I have better things to do than listen to adolescent 
agonising… good‐day to you.ʹ 
And he strolled to the edge of his frame and out of sight. 
ʹFine, go then!ʹ Harry bellowed at the empty frame. ʹAnd tell Dumbledore thanks 
for nothing!ʹ 
The empty canvas remained silent. Fuming, Harry dragged his trunk back to the 
foot of his bed, then threw himself face down on the moth‐eaten covers, his eyes 
shut, his body heavy and aching. 
He felt as though he had journeyed for miles and miles… it seemed impossible 
that less than twenty‐four hours ago Cho Chang had been approaching him 
under the mistletoe… he was so tired… he was scared to sleep… yet he did not 

know how long he could fight it… Dumbledore had told him to stay… that must 
mean he was allowed to sleep… but he was scared… what if it happened again? 
He was sinking into shadows… 
It was as though a film in his head had been waiting to start. He was walking 
down a deserted corridor towards a plain black door, past rough stone walls, 
torches, and an open doorway on to a flight of stone steps leading downstairs on 
the left… 
He reached the black door but could not open it… he stood gazing at it, desperate 
for entry… something he wanted with all his heart lay beyond… a prize beyond 
his dreams… if only his scar would stop prickling… then he would be able to 
think more clearly… 
ʹHarry,ʹ said Ronʹs voice, from far, far away, ʹMum says dinnerʹs ready, but sheʹll 
save you something if you want to stay in bed.ʹ 
Harry opened his eyes, but Ron had already left the room. 
He doesnʹt want to be on his own with me, Harry thought. Not after what he heard 
Moody say. 
He supposed none of them would want him there any more, now that they knew 
what was inside him. 
He would not go down to dinner; he would not inflict his company on them. He 
turned over on to his other side and, after a while, dropped back off to sleep. He 
woke much later, in the early hours of the morning, his insides aching with 
hunger and Ron snoring in the next bed. Squinting around the room, he saw the 
dark outline of Phineas Nigellus standing again in his portrait and it occurred to 
Harry that Dumbledore had probably sent Phineas Nigellus to watch over him, 
in case he attacked somebody else. 
The feeling of being unclean intensified. He half‐wished he had not obeyed 
Dumbledore… if this was how life was going to be for him in Grimmauld Place 
from now on, maybe he would be better off in Privet Drive after all. 
* 

Everybody else spent the following morning putting up Christmas decorations. 
Harry could not remember Sirius ever being in such a good mood; he was 
actually singing carols, apparently delighted that he was to have company over 
Christmas. Harry could hear his voice echoing up through the floor in the cold 
drawing room where he was sitting alone, watching the sky growing whiter 
outside the windows, threatening snow, all the time feeling a savage pleasure 
that he was giving the others the opportunity to keep talking about him, as they 
were bound to be doing. When he heard Mrs Weasley calling his name softly up 
the stairs around lunchtime, he retreated further upstairs and ignored her. 
Around six oʹclock in the evening the doorbell rang and Mrs Black started 
screaming again. Assuming that Mundungus or some other Order member had 
come to call, Harry merely settled himself more comfortably against the wall of 
Buckbeakʹs room where he was hiding, trying to ignore how hungry he felt as he 
fed dead rats to the Hippogriff. It came as a slight shock when somebody 
hammered hard on the door a few minutes later. 
ʹI know youʹre in there,ʹ said Hermioneʹs voice. ʹWill you please come out? 1 
want to talk to you.ʹ 
ʹWhat are you doing here?ʹ Harry asked her, pulling open the door as Buckbeak 
resumed his scratching at the straw‐strewn floor for any fragments of rat he may 
have dropped. ʹI thought you were skiing with your mum and dad?ʹ 
ʹWell, to tell the truth, skiingʹs not really my thing,ʹ said Hermione. ʹSo, Iʹve come 
here for Christmas.ʹ There was snow in her hair and her face was pink with cold. 
ʹBut donʹt tell Ron. I told him skiingʹs really good because he kept laughing so 
much. Mum and Dad are a bit disappointed, but Iʹve told them that everyone 
who is serious about the exams is staying at Hogwarts to study. They want me to 
do well, theyʹll understand. Anyway,ʹ she said briskly, ʹletʹs go to your bedroom, 
Ronʹs mum has lit a fire in there and sheʹs sent up sandwiches.ʹ 
Harry followed her back to the second floor. When he entered the bedroom, he 
was rather surprised to see both Ron and Ginny waiting for them, sitting on 
Ronʹs bed. 
ʹI came on the Knight Bus,ʹ said Hermione airily, pulling off her jacket before 
Harry had time to speak. ʹDumbledore told me what had happened first thing 
this morning, but I had to wait for term to end officially before setting off. 
Umbridge is already livid that you lot disappeared right under her nose, even 

though Dumbledore told her Mr Weasley was in St Mungoʹs and heʹd given you 
all permission to visit. So…ʺ 
She sat down next to Ginny, and the two girls and Ron all looked up at Harry. 
ʹHowʹre you feeling?ʹ asked Hermione. 
Tine,ʹ said Harry stiffly. 
ʹOh, donʹt lie, Harry,ʹ she said impatiently. ʹRon and Ginny say youʹve been 
hiding from everyone since you got back from St Mungoʹs.ʹ 
They do, do they?ʹ said Harry, glaring at Ron and Ginny. Ron looked down at his 
feet but Ginny seemed quite unabashed. 
ʹWell, you have!ʹ she said. ʹAnd you wonʹt look at any of us!ʹ 
ʹItʹs you lot who wonʹt look at me!ʹ said Harry angrily. 
ʹMaybe youʹre taking it in turns to look, and keep missing each other,ʹ suggested 
Hermione, the corners of her mouth twitching. 
ʹVery funny,ʹ snapped Harry, turning away. 
ʹOh, stop feeling all misunderstood,ʹ said Hermione sharply. ʹLook, the others 
have told me what you overheard last night on the Extendable Ears ‐ʹ 
ʹYeah?ʹ growled Harry, his hands deep in his pockets as he watched the snow 
now falling thickly outside. ʹAll been talking about me, have you? Well, Iʹm 
getting used to it.ʹ 
ʹWe wanted to talk to you, Harry,ʹ said Ginny, ʹbut as youʹve been hiding ever 
since we got back ‐ʹ 
ʹI didnʹt want anyone to talk to me,ʹ said Harry, who was feeling more and more 
nettled. 
ʹWell, that was a bit stupid of you,ʹ said Ginny angrily, ʹseeing as you donʹt know 
anyone but me whoʹs been possessed by You‐Know‐Who, and I can tell you how 
it feels.ʹ 

Harry remained quite still as the impact of these words hit him. Then he wheeled 
round. 
ʹI forgot,ʹ he said. 
ʹLucky you,ʹ said Ginny coolly. 
ʹIʹm sorryʹ Harry said, and he meant it. ʹSo… so, do you think Iʹm being 
possessed, then?ʹ 
ʹWell, can you remember everything youʹve been doing?ʹ Ginny asked. ʹAre there 
big blank periods where you donʹt know what youʹve been up to?ʹ 
Harry racked his brains. 
ʹNo,ʹ he said. 
Then You‐Know‐Who hasnʹt ever possessed you,ʹ said Ginny simply. ʹWhen he 
did it to me, I couldnʹt remember what Iʹd been doing for hours at a time. Iʹd find 
myself somewhere and not know how I got there.ʹ 
Harry hardly dared believe her, yet his heart was lightening almost in spite of 
himself. 
ʹThat dream I had about your dad and the snake, though —ʹ 
ʹHarry youʹve had these dreams before,ʹ Hermione said. ʹYou had flashes of what 
Voldemort was up to last year.ʹ 
This was different,ʹ said Harry, shaking his head. ʹI was inside that snake. It was 
like I was the snake… what if Voldemort somehow transported me to London —
?ʹ 
ʹOne day,ʹ said Hermione, sounding thoroughly exasperated, ʹyouʹll read 
Hogwarts: A History, and perhaps it will remind you that you canʹt Apparate or 
Disapparate inside Hogwarts. Even Voldemort couldnʹt just make you fly out of 
your dormitory, Harry.ʹ 
ʹYou didnʹt leave your bed, mate,ʹ said Ron. ʹI saw you thrashing around in your 
sleep for at least a minute before we could wake you up.ʹ 

Harry started pacing up and down the room again, thinking. What they were all 
saying was not only comforting, it made sense… without really thinking, he took 
a sandwich from the plate on the bed and crammed it hungrily into his mouth. 
Iʹm not the weapon after all, thought Harry. His heart swelled with happiness and 
relief, and he felt like joining in as they heard 
Sirius tramping past their door towards Buckbeakʹs room, singing ʹGod Rest Ye, 
Merry Hippogriffsʹ at the top of his voice. 
* 
How could he have dreamed of returning to Privet Drive for Christmas? Siriusʹs 
delight at having the house full again, and especially at having Harry back, was 
infectious. He was no longer their sullen host of the summer; now he seemed 
determined that everyone should enjoy themselves as much, if not more than 
they would have done at Hogwarts, and he worked tirelessly in the run‐up to 
Christmas Day, cleaning and decorating with their help, so that by the time they 
all went to bed on Christmas Eve the house was barely recognisable. The 
tarnished chandeliers were no longer hung with cobwebs but with garlands of 
holly and gold and silver streamers; magical snow glittered in heaps over the 
threadbare carpets; a great Christmas tree, obtained by Mundungus and 
decorated with live fairies, blocked Siriusʹs family tree from view, and even the 
stuffed elf‐heads on the hall wall wore Father Christmas hats and beards. 
Harry awoke on Christmas morning to find a stack of presents at the foot of his 
bed and Ron already halfway through opening his own, rather larger, pile. 
ʹGood haul this year,ʹ he informed Harry through a cloud of paper. Thanks for 
the Broom Compass, itʹs excellent; beats Hermiones ‐ she got me a homework 
planner ‐
Harry sorted through his presents and found one with Hermiones handwriting 
on it. She had given him, too, a book that resembled a diary except that every 
time he opened a page it said aloud things like: ʹDo it today or later youʹll pay!ʹ 
Sirius and Lupin had given Harry a set of excellent books entitled Practical 
Defensive Magic and its Use Against the Dark Arts, which had superb, moving 
colour illustrations of all the counter‐jinxes and hexes it described. Harry flicked 
through the first volume eagerly; he could see it was going to be highly useful in 
his plans for the DA. Hagrid had sent a furry brown wallet that had fangs, which 

were presumably supposed to be an anti‐theft device, but unfortunately 
prevented Harry putting any money in without getting his fingers ripped off. 
Tonkss present was a small, working model of a Firebolt, which Harry watched 
fly around the room, wishing he still had his full‐size version; Ron had given him 
an enormous box of Every‐Flavour Beans, Mr and Mrs Weasley the usual hand‐
knitted jumper and some mince pies, and Dobby a truly dreadful painting that 
Harry suspected had been done by the elf himself. He had just turned it upside‐
down to see whether it looked better that way when, with a loud crack, Fred and 
George Apparated at the foot of his bed. 
ʹMerry Christmas,ʹ said George. ʹDonʹt go downstairs for a bit.ʹ 
ʹWhy not?ʹ said Ron. 
ʹMumʹs crying again,ʹ said Fred heavily. ʹPercy sent back his Christmas jumper.ʹ 
ʹWithout a note,ʹ added George. ʹHasnʹt asked how Dad is or visited him or 
anything.ʹ 
ʹWe tried to comfort her,ʹ said Fred, moving around the bed to look at Harryʹs 
portrait. Told her Percyʹs nothing more than a humungous pile of rat droppings.ʹ 
ʹDidnʹt work,ʹ said George, helping himself to a Chocolate Frog. ʹSo Lupin took 
over. Best let him cheer her up before we go down for breakfast, I reckon.ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs that supposed to be, anyway?ʹ asked Fred, squinting at Dobbyʹs painting. 
ʹLooks like a gibbon with two black eyes.ʹ 
ʹItʹs Harry!ʹ said George, pointing at the back of the picture, ʹsays so on the back!ʹ 
ʹGood likeness,ʹ said Fred, grinning. Harry threw his new homework diary at 
him; it hit the wall opposite and fell to the floor where it said happily: ʹIf youʹve 
dotted the ʺiʺs and crossed the ʺtʺs then you may do whatever you please!ʹ 
They got up and dressed. They could hear the various inhabitants of the house 
calling ʹMerry Christmasʹ to one another. On their way downstairs they met 
Hermione. 
Thanks for the book, Harryʹ she said happily. ʹIʹve been wanting that New Theory 
oj Numerology for ages! And that perfumeʹs really unusual, Ron.ʹ 

ʹNo problem,ʹ said Ron. ʹWhoʹs that for, anyway?ʹ he added, nodding at the 
neatly wrapped present she was carrying. 
ʹKreacher,ʹ said Hermione brightly. ;> 
ʹIt had better not be clothes!ʹ Ron warned her. ʹYou know what Sirius said: 
Kreacher knows too much, we canʹt set him free!ʹ 
ʹIt isnʹt clothes,ʹ said Hermione, ʹalthough if I had my way Iʹd certainly give him 
something to wear other than that filthy old rag. No, itʹs a patchwork quilt, I 
thought it would brighten up his bedroom.ʹ 
ʹWhat bedroom?ʹ said Harry, dropping his voice to a whisper as they were 
passing the portrait of Siriusʹs mother. 
ʹWell, Sirius says itʹs not so much a bedroom, more a kind of ‐den,ʹ said 
Hermione. ʹApparently he sleeps under the boiler in that cupboard off the 
kitchen.ʹ 
Mrs Weasley was the only person in the basement when they arrived there. She 
was standing at the stove and sounded as though she had a bad head cold as she 
wished them ʹMerry Christmasʹ, and they all averted their eyes. 
ʹSo, is this Kreacherʹs bedroom?ʹ said Ron, strolling over to a dingy door in the 
corner opposite the pantry. Harry had never seen it open. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Hermione, now sounding a little nervous. ʹEr… I think weʹd better 
knock.ʹ 
Ron rapped on the door with his knuckles but there was no reply. 
ʹHe must be sneaking around upstairs,ʹ he said, and without further ado pulled 
open the door. ʹUrgh!ʹ 
Harry peered inside. Most of the cupboard was taken up with a very large and 
old‐fashioned boiler, but in the foot of space underneath the pipes Kreacher had 
made himself something that looked like a nest. A jumble of assorted rags and 
smelly old blankets were piled on the floor and the small dent in the middle of it 
showed where Kreacher curled up to sleep every night. Here and there among 
the material were stale bread crusts and mouldy old bits of cheese. In a far corner 
glinted small objects and coins that Harry guessed Kreacher had saved, magpie‐

like, from Siriusʹs purge of the house, and he had also managed to retrieve the 
silver‐framed family photographs that Sirius had thrown away over the summer. 
Their glass might be shattered, but still the little black‐and‐white people inside 
them peered up at him haughtily, including ‐ he felt a little jolt in his stomach ‐ 
the dark, heavy‐lidded woman whose trial he had witnessed in Dumbledoreʹs 
Pensieve: Bellatrix Lestrange. By the looks of it, hers was Kreacherʹs favourite 
photograph; he had placed it to the fore of all the others and had mended the 
glass clumsily with Spellotape. 
ʹI think Iʹll just leave his present here,ʹ said Hermione, laying the package neatly 
in the middle of the depression in the rags and blankets and closing the door 
quietly. ʹHeʹll find it later, thatʹll be fine.ʹ 
ʹCome to think of it,ʹ said Sirius, emerging from the pantry carrying a large 
turkey as they closed the cupboard door, ʹhas anyone actually seen Kreacher 
lately?ʹ 
ʹI havenʹt seen him since the night we came back here,ʹ said Harry. ʹYou were 
ordering him out of the kitchen.ʹ 
ʹYeah…ʹ said Sirius, frowning. ʹYou know, I think thatʹs the last time I saw him, 
too… he must be hiding upstairs somewhere.ʹ 
ʹHe couldnʹt have left, could he?ʹ said Harry. ʹI mean, when you said ʺoutʺ, 
maybe he thought you meant get out of the house?ʹ 
ʹNo, no, house‐elves canʹt leave unless theyʹre given clothes. Theyʹre tied to their 
familyʹs house,ʹ said Sirius. 
They can leave the house if they really want to,ʹ Harry contradicted him. ʹDobby 
did, he left the Malfoysʹ to give me warnings two years ago. He had to punish 
himself afterwards, but he still managed it.ʹ 
Sirius looked slightly disconcerted for a moment, then said, Til look for him later, 
I expect Iʹll find him upstairs crying his eyes out over my motherʹs old bloomers 
or something. Of course, he might have crawled into the airing cupboard and 
died… but 1 mustnʹt get my hopes up.ʹ 
Fred, George and Ron laughed; Hermione, however, looked reproachful. j 

Once they had eaten their Christmas lunch, the Weasleys, Harry and Hermione 
were planning to pay Mr Weasley another visit, escorted by Mad‐Eye and Lupin. 
Mundungus turned up in time for Christmas pudding and trifle, having 
managed to ʹborrowʹ a car for the occasion, as the Underground did not run on 
Christmas Day. The car, which Harry doubted very much had been taken with 
the consent of its owner, had been enlarged with a spell like the Weasleysʹ old 
Ford Anglia had once been. Although normally proportioned outside, ten people 
with Mundungus driving were able to fit into it quite comfortably. Mrs Weasley 
hesitated before getting inside ‐ Harry knew her disapproval of Mundungus was 
battling with her dislike of travelling without magic ‐ but, finally, the cold 
outside and her childrenʹs pleading triumphed, and she settled herself into the 
back seat between Fred and Bill with good grace. 
The journey to St Mungoʹs was quite quick as there was very little traffic on the 
roads. A small trickle of witches and wizards was creeping furtively up the 
otherwise deserted street to visit the hospital. Harry and the others got out of the 
car, and Mundungus drove off around the corner to wait for them. They strolled 
casually towards the window where the dummy in green nylon stood, then, one 
by one, stepped through the glass. 
The reception area looked pleasantly festive: the crystal orbs that illuminated St 
Mungoʹs had been coloured red and gold to become gigantic, glowing Christmas 
baubles; holly hung around every doorway; and shining white Christmas trees 
covered in magical snow and icicles glittered in every corner, each one topped 
with a gleaming gold star. It was less crowded than the last time they had been 
there, although halfway across the room Harry found himself shunted aside by a 
witch with a satsuma jammed up her left nostril. 
ʹFamily argument, eh?ʹ smirked the blonde witch behind the desk. ʹYouʹre the 
third Iʹve seen today… Spell Damage, fourth floor.ʹ 
They found Mr Weasley propped up in bed with the remains of his turkey 
dinner on a tray on his lap and a rather sheepish expression on his face. 
ʹEverything all right, Arthur?ʹ asked Mrs Weasley, after they had all greeted Mr 
Weasley and handed over their presents. 
ʹFine, fine,ʹ said Mr Weasley, a little too heartily. ʹYou — er — havenʹt seen 
Healer Smethwyck, have you?ʹ 

ʹNo,ʹ said Mrs Weasley suspiciously, ʹwhy?ʹ 
ʹNothing, nothing,ʹ said Mr Weasley airily, starting to unwrap his pile of gifts. 
ʹWell, everyone had a good day? What did you all get for Christmas? Oh, Harry ‐ 
this is absolutely wonderful!ʹ For he had just opened Harryʹs gift of fuse‐wire 
and screwdrivers. 
Mrs Weasley did not seem entirely satisfied with Mr Weasleyʹs answer. As her 
husband leaned over to shake Harryʹs hand, she peered at the bandaging under 
his nightshirt. 
ʹArthur,ʹ she said, with a snap in her voice like a mousetrap, ʹyouʹve had your 
bandages changed. Why have you had your bandages changed a day early, 
Arthur? They told me they wouldnʹt need doing until tomorrow.ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Mr Weasley, looking rather frightened and pulling the bed covers 
higher up his chest. ʹNo, no ‐ itʹs nothing ‐ itʹs ‐l‐
He seemed to deflate under Mrs Weasleyʹs piercing gaze. 
ʹWell ‐ now donʹt get upset, Molly, but Augustus Pye had an idea… heʹs the 
Trainee Healer, you know, lovely young chap and very interested in… um… 
complementary medicine… 1 mean, some of these old Muggle remedies… well, 
theyʹre called stitches, Molly, and they work very well on ‐ on Muggle wounds ‐ʹ 
Mrs Weasley let out an ominous noise somewhere between a shriek and a snarl. 
Lupin strolled away from the bed and over to the werewolf, who had no visitors 
and was looking rather wistfully at the crowd around Mr Weasley; Bill muttered 
something about getting himself a cup of tea and Fred and George leapt up to 
accompany him, grinning. 
ʹDo you mean to tell me,ʹ said Mrs Weasley, her voice growing louder with every 
word and apparently unaware that her fellow visitors were scurrying for cover, 
ʹthat you have been messing about with Muggle remedies?ʹ 
ʹNot messing about, Molly, dear,ʹ said Mr Weasley imploringly, ʹit was just ‐ just 
something Pye and I thought weʹd try ‐ only, most unfortunately — well, with 
these particular kinds of wounds ‐ it doesnʹt seem to work as well as weʹd hoped 
‐ʹ 
ʹMeaning?ʹ

ʹWell… well, 1 donʹt know whether you know what ‐ what stitches are?ʹ 
ʹIt sounds as though youʹve been trying to sew your skin back together,ʹ said Mrs 
Weasley with a snort of mirthless laughter, ʹbut even you, Arthur, wouldnʹt be 
that stupid —ʹ 
ʹI fancy a cup of tea, too,ʹ said Harry, jumping to his feet. 
Hermione, Ron and Ginny almost sprinted to the door with him. As it swung 
closed behind them, they heard Mrs Weasley shriek, ʹWHAT DO YOU MEAN, 
THATʹS THE GENERAL IDEA?ʹ 
Typical Dad,ʹ said Ginny, shaking her head as they set off up the corridor. 
ʹStitches… I ask you…ʹ 
ʹWell, you know, they do work well on non‐magical wounds,ʹ said Hermione 
fairly. ʹI suppose something in that snakeʹs venom dissolves them or something. I 
wonder where the tearoom is?ʹ 
ʹFifth floor,ʹ said Harry, remembering the sign over the welcomewitchʹs desk. 
They walked along the corridor, through a set of double doors and found a 
rickety staircase lined with more portraits of brutal‐looking Healers. As they 
climbed it, the various Healers called out to them, diagnosing odd complaints 
and suggesting horrible remedies. Ron was seriously affronted when a medieval 
wizard called out that he clearly had a bad case of spattergroit. 
ʹAnd whatʹs that supposed to be?ʹ he asked angrily, as the Healer pursued him 
through six more portraits, shoving the occupants out of the way. 
ʹTis a most grievous affliction of the skin, young master, that will leave you 
pockmarked and more gruesome even than you are now ‐ʹ 
ʹWatch who youʹre calling gruesome!ʹ said Ron, his ears turning red. 
ʹ‐ the only remedy is to take the liver of a toad, bind it tight about your throat, 
stand naked at the full moon in a barrel of eelsʹ eyes ‐ʹ 
ʹI have not got spattergroit!ʹ 
ʹBut the unsightly blemishes upon your visage, young master ‐ʹ 

Theyʹre freckles!ʹ said Ron furiously. ʹNow get back in your own picture and 
leave me alone!ʹ 
He rounded on the others, who were all keeping determinedly straight faces. 
ʹWhat floorʹs this?ʹ 
ʹI think itʹs the fifth,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹNah, itʹs the fourth,ʹ said Harry, ʹone more —ʹ 
But as he stepped on to the landing he came to an abrupt halt, staring at the 
small window set into the double doors that marked the start of a corridor 
signposted SPELL DAMAGE. A man was peering out at them all with his nose 
pressed against the glass. He had wavy blond hair, bright blue eyes and a broad 
vacant smile that revealed dazzlingly white teeth. 
ʹBlimey!ʹ said Ron, also staring at the man. 
ʹOh, my goodness,ʹ said Hermione suddenly, sounding breathless. ʹProfessor 
Lockhart!ʹ 
Their ex‐Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher pushed open the doors and 
moved towards them, wearing a long lilac dressing gown. 
ʹWell, hello there!ʹ he said. ʹI expect youʹd like my autograph, would you?ʹ 
ʹHasnʹt changed much, has he?ʹ Harry muttered to Ginny, who grinned. 
ʹEr — how are you, Professor?ʹ said Ron, sounding slightly guilty. It had been 
Ronʹs malfunctioning wand that had damaged Professor Lockhartʹs memory so 
badly that he had landed in St Mungoʹs in the first place, though as Lockhart had 
been attempting to permanently wipe Harry and Ronʹs memories at the time, 
Harrys sympathy was limited. 
ʹIʹm very well indeed, thank you!ʹ said Lockhart exuberantly, pulling a rather 
battered peacock‐feather quill from his pocket. ʹNow, how many autographs 
would you like? I can do joined‐up writing now, you know!ʹ 

ʹEr ‐ we donʹt want any at the moment, thanks,ʹ said Ron, raising his eyebrows at 
Harry, who asked, ʹProfessor, should you be wandering around the corridors? 
Shouldnʹt you be in a ward?ʹ 
The smile faded slowly from Lockhartʹs face. For a few moments he gazed 
intently at Harry, then he said, ʹHavenʹt we met?ʹ 
ʹEr… yeah, we have,ʹ said Harry. ʹYou used to teach us at Hogwarts, remember?ʹ 
Teach?ʹ repeated Lockhart, looking faintly unsettled. ʹMe? Did I?ʹ 
And then the smile reappeared upon his face so suddenly it was rather alarming. 
Taught you everything you know, I expect, did I? Well, how about those 
autographs, then? Shall we say a round dozen, you can give them to all your 
little friends then and nobody will be left out!ʹ 
But just then a head poked out of a door at the far end of the corridor and a voice 
called, ʹGilderoy, you naughty boy, where have you wandered off to?ʹ 
A motherly‐looking Healer wearing a tinsel wreath in her hair came bustling up 
the corridor, smiling warmly at Harry and the others. 
ʹOh, Gilderoy, youʹve got visitors! How lovely, and on Christmas Day, too! Do 
you know, he never gets visitors, poor lamb, and I canʹt think why, heʹs such a 
sweetie, arenʹt you?ʹ 
ʹWeʹre doing autographs!ʹ Gilderoy told the Healer with another glittering smile. 
They want loads of them, wonʹt take no for an answer! I just hope weʹve got 
enough photographs!ʹ 
ʹListen to him,ʹ said the Healer, taking Lockhartʹs arm and beaming fondly at him 
as though he were a precocious two‐year‐old. ʹHe was rather well known a few 
years ago; we very much hope that this liking for giving autographs is a sign that 
his memory might be starting to come back. Will you step this way? Heʹs in a 
closed ward, you know, he must have slipped out while I was bringing in the 
Christmas presents, the doorʹs usually kept locked… not that heʹs dangerous! 
But,ʹ she lowered her voice to a whisper, ʹheʹs a bit of a danger to himself, bless 
him… doesnʹt know who he is, you see, wanders off and canʹt remember how to 
get back… it is nice of you to have come to see him.ʹ 

ʹEr,ʹ said Ron, gesturing uselessly at the floor above, ʹactually, we were just — er ‐
ʹ 
But the Healer was smiling expectantly at them, and Ronʹs feeble mutter of 
ʹgoing to have a cup of teaʹ trailed away into nothingness. They looked at each 
other helplessly, then followed Lockhart and his Healer along the corridor. 
ʹLetʹs not stay long,ʹ Ron said quietly. 
The Healer pointed her wand at the door of the Janus Thickey Ward and 
muttered, ʹAlohomora.ʹ The door swung open and she led the way inside, keeping 
a firm grasp on Gilderoys arm until she had settled him into an armchair beside 
his bed. 
This is our long‐term residentsʹ ward,ʹ she informed Harry, Ron, 
Hermione and Ginny in a low voice. ʹFor permanent spell damage, you know. Of 
course, with intensive remedial potions and charms and a bit of luck, we can 
produce some improvement. Gilderoy does seem to be getting back some sense 
of himself; and weʹve seen a real improvement in Mr Bode, he seems to be 
regaining the power of speech very well, though he isnʹt speaking any language 
we recognise yet. Well, 1 must finish giving out the Christmas presents, Iʹll leave 
you all to chat.ʹ 
Harry looked around. The ward bore unmistakeable signs of being a permanent 
home to its residents. They had many more personal effects around their beds 
than in Mr Weasleyʹs ward; the wall around Gilderoyʹs headboard, for instance, 
was papered with pictures of himself, all beaming toothily and waving at the 
new arrivals. He had autographed many of them to himself in disjointed, 
childish writing. The moment he had been deposited in his chair by the Healer, 
Gilderoy pulled a fresh stack of photographs towards him, seized a quill and 
started signing them all feverishly. 
ʹYou can put them in envelopes,ʹ he said to Ginny, throwing the signed pictures 
into her lap one by one as he finished them. ʹI am not forgotten, you know, no, I 
still receive a very great deal of fan mail… Gladys Gudgeon writes weekly … 1 
just wish I knew why He paused, looking faintly puzzled, then beamed again and 
returned to his signing with renewed vigour. ʹ1 suspect it is simply my good 
looks…ʹ 

A sallow‐skinned, mournful‐looking wizard lay in the bed opposite staring at the 
ceiling; he was mumbling to himself and seemed quite unaware of anything 
around him. Two beds along was a woman whose entire head was covered in 
fur; Harry remembered something similar happening to Hermione during their 
second year, although fortunately the damage, in her case, had not been 
permanent. At the far end of the ward flowery curtains had been drawn around 
two beds to give the occupants and their visitors some privacy. 
ʹHere you are, Agnes,ʹ said the Healer brightly to the furry‐faced woman, 
handing her a small pile of Christmas presents. ʹSee, not forgotten, are you? And 
your sonʹs sent an owl to say heʹs visiting tonight, so thatʹs nice, isnʹt it?ʹ 
Agnes gave several loud barks. 
ʹAnd look, Broderick, youʹve been sent a pot plant and a lovely calendar with a 
different fancy Hippogriff for each month; theyʹll brighten things up, wonʹt 
they?ʹ said the Healer, bustling along to the mumbling man, setting a rather ugly 
plant with long, swaying tentacles on the bedside cabinet and fixing the calendar 
to the wall with her wand. ʹAnd ‐ oh, Mrs Longbottom, are you leaving already?ʹ 
Harryʹs head span round. The curtains had been drawn back from the two beds 
at the end of the ward and two visitors were walking back down the aisle 
between the beds: a formidable‐looking old witch wearing a long green dress, a 
moth‐eaten fox fur and a pointed hat decorated with what was unmistakeably a 
stuffed vulture and, trailing behind her looking thoroughly depressed ‐ Neville. 
With a sudden rush of understanding, Harry realised who the people in the end 
beds must be. He cast around wildly for some means of distracting the others so 
that Neville could leave the ward unnoticed and unquestioned, but Ron had also 
looked up at the sound of the name ʹLongbottomʹ, and before Harry could stop 
him had called out, ʹNeville!ʹ 
Neville jumped and cowered as though a bullet had narrowly missed him. 
ʹItʹs us, Neville!ʹ said Ron brightly, getting to his feet. ʹHave you seen ‐? 
Lockhartʹs here! Whoʹve you been visiting?ʹ 
ʹFriends of yours, Neville, dear?ʹ said Nevilleʹs grandmother graciously, bearing 
down upon them all. 

Neville looked as though he would rather be anywhere in the world but here. A 
dull purple flush was creeping up his plump face and he was not making eye 
contact with any of them. 
ʹAh, yes,ʹ said his grandmother, looking closely at Harry and sticking out a 
shrivelled, clawlike hand for him to shake. ʹYes, yes, I know who you are, of 
course. Neville speaks most highly of you.ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ thanks,ʹ said Harry, shaking hands. Neville did not look at him, but 
surveyed his own feet, the colour deepening in his face all the while. 
ʹAnd you two are clearly Weasleys,ʹ Mrs Longbottom continued, proffering her 
hand regally to Ron and Ginny in turn. ʹYes, I know your parents — not well, of 
course — but fine people, fine people… and you must be Hermione Granger?ʹ 
Hermione looked rather startled that Mrs Longbottom knew her name, but 
shook hands all the same. 
ʹYes, Nevilleʹs told me all about you. Helped him out of a few sticky spots, 
havenʹt you? Heʹs a good boy,ʹ she said, casting a sternly appraising look down 
her rather bony nose at Neville, ʹbut he hasnʹt got his fatherʹs talent, Iʹm afraid to 
say.ʹ And she jerked her head in the direction of the two beds at the end of the 
ward, so that the stuffed vulture on her hat trembled alarmingly. 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Ron, looking amazed. (Harry wanted to stamp on Ronʹs foot, but 
that sort of thing is much harder to bring off unnoticed when youʹre wearing 
jeans rather than robes.) ʹIs that your dad down the end, Neville?ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs this?ʹ said Mrs Longbottom sharply. ʹHavenʹt you told your friends about 
your parents, Neville?ʹ 
Neville took a deep breath, looked up at the ceiling and shook his head. Harry 
could not remember ever feeling sorrier for anyone, but he could not think of any 
way of helping Neville out of the situation. 
ʹWell, itʹs nothing to be ashamed of!ʹ said Mrs Longbottom angrily. ʹYou should 
be proud, Neville, proudl They didnʹt give their health and their sanity so their 
only son would be ashamed of them, you know!ʹ 

ʹIʹm not ashamed,ʹ said Neville, very faintly, still looking anywhere but at Harry 
and the others. Ron was now standing on tiptoe to look over at the inhabitants of 
the two beds. 
ʹWell, youʹve got a funny way of showing it!ʹ said Mrs Longbottom. ʹMy son and 
his wife,ʹ she said, turning haughtily to Harry, Ron, Hermione and Ginny, ʹwere 
tortured into insanity by You‐Know‐Whoʹs followers.ʹ 
Hermione and Ginny both clapped their hands over their mouths. Ron stopped 
craning his neck to catch a glimpse of Nevilleʹs parents and looked mortified. 
They were Aurors, you know, and very well respected within the wizarding 
communityʹ Mrs Longbottom went on. ʹHighly gifted, the pair of them. I ‐ yes, 
Alice dear, what is it?ʹ 
Nevilleʹs mother had come edging down the ward in her nightdress. She no 
longer had the plump, happy‐looking face Harry had seen in Moodyʹs old 
photograph of the original Order of the Phoenix. Her face was thin and worn 
now, her eyes seemed overlarge and her hair, which had turned white, was 
wispy and dead‐looking. She did not seem to want to speak, or perhaps she was 
not able to, but she made timid motions towards Neville, holding something in 
her outstretched hand. 
ʹAgain?ʹ said Mrs Longbottom, sounding slightly weary. ʹVery well, Alice dear, 
very well ‐ Neville, take it, whatever it is.ʹ 
But Neville had already stretched out his hand, into which his mother dropped 
an empty Droobleʹs Best Blowing Gum wrapper. 
ʹVery nice, dear,ʹ said Nevilleʹs grandmother in a falsely cheery voice, patting his 
mother on the shoulder. 
But Neville said quietly, Thanks, Mum.ʹ 
His mother tottered away, back up the ward, humming to herself. Neville looked 
around at the others, his expression defiant, as though daring them to laugh, but 
Harry did not think heʹd ever found anything less funny in his life. 
ʹWell, weʹd better get back,ʹ sighed Mrs Longbottom, drawing on long green 
gloves. ʹVery nice to have met you all. Neville, put that wrapper in the bin, she 
must have given you enough of them to paper your bedroom by now.ʹ 

But as they left, Harry was sure he saw Neville slip the sweet wrapper into his 
pocket. 
The door closed behind them. 
ʹI never knew,ʹ said Hermione, who looked tearful. 
ʹNor did I,ʹ said Ron rather hoarsely. 
ʹNor me,ʹ whispered Ginny. 
They all looked at Harry. 
ʹI did,ʹ he said glumly. ʹDumbledore told me but I promised I wouldnʹt tell 
anyone… thatʹs what Bellatrix Lestrange got sent to Azkaban for, using the 
Cruciatus Curse on Nevilleʹs parents until they lost their minds.ʹ 
ʹBellatrix Lestrange did that?ʹ whispered Hermione, horrified. That woman 
Kreacherʹs got a photo of in his den?ʹ 
There was a long silence, broken by Lockharts angry voice. 
ʹLook, I didnʹt learn joined‐up writing for nothing, you know!ʹ 
— CHAPTER TWENTY‐FIVE — 
The Beetle at Bay
Harryʹs question was answered the very next morning. When Hermioneʹs Daily 
Prophet arrived she smoothed it out, gazed for a moment at the front page and 
gave a yelp that caused everyone in the vicinity to stare at her. 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry and Ron together. 
For answer she spread the newspaper on the table in front of them and pointed 
at ten black‐and‐white photographs that filled the whole of the front page, nine 
showing wizardsʹ faces and the tenth, a witchʹs. Some of the people in the 
photographs were silently jeering; others were tapping their fingers on the frame 
of their pictures, looking insolent. Each picture was captioned with a name and 
the crime for which the person had been sent to Azkaban. 

Antonin Dolohov, read the legend beneath a wizard with a long, pale, twisted face 
who was sneering up at Harry, convicted of the brutal murders of Gideon and Fabian 
Prewett. 
Algernon Rookwood, said the caption beneath a pockmarked man with greasy hair 
who was leaning against the edge of his picture, looking bored, convicted of 
leaking Ministry of Magic secrets to He Who Must Not Be Named. 
But Harryʹs eyes were drawn to the picture of the witch. Her face had leapt out at 
him the moment he had seen the page. She had long, dark hair that looked 
unkempt and straggly in the picture, though he had seen it sleek, thick and 
shining. She glared up at him through heavily lidded eyes, an arrogant, 
disdainful smile playing around her thin mouth. Like Sirius, she retained 
vestiges of great good looks, but something ‐ perhaps Azkaban ‐ had taken most 
of her beauty. 
Bellatrix Lestrange, convicted of the torture and permanent inca‐pacitation of Frank and 
Alice Longbottom.
Hermione nudged Harry and pointed at the headline over the pictures, which 
Harry, concentrating on Bellatrix, had not yet read. 
MASS BREAKOUT FROM AZKABAN 
MINISTRY FEARS BLACK IS ʹRALLYING POINTʹ
FOR OLD DEATH EATERS
ʹBlack?ʹ said Harry loudly. ʹNot ‐?ʹ 
ʹShhh!ʹ whispered Hermione desperately. ʹNot so loud ‐ just read it!ʹ 
The Ministry of Magic announced late last night that there has been a mass breakout 
from Azkaban.
Speaking to reporters in his private office, Cornelius Fudge, Minister for Magic, 
confirmed that ten high‐security prisoners escaped in the early hours of yesterday 
evening and that he has already informed the Muggle Prime Minister of the dangerous 
nature of these individuals.

ʹWe find ourselves, most unfortunately, in the same position we were two and a half 
years ago when the murderer Sinus Black escaped,ʹ said Fudge last night. ʹNor do we 
think the two breakouts are unrelated. An escape of this magnitude suggests outside help, 
and we must remember that Black, as the first person ever to break out of Azkaban, would 
be ideally placed to help others follow in his footsteps. We think it likely that these 
individuals, who include Blackʹs cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange, have rallied around Black as 
their leader. We are, however, doing all we can to round up the criminals, and we beg the 
magical community to remain alert and cautious. On no account should any of these 
individuals be approached.ʹ
There you are, Harry,ʹ said Ron, looking awestruck. Thatʹs why he was happy 
last night.ʹ 
ʹI donʹt believe this,ʹ snarled Harry, ʹFudge is blaming the breakout on Sinus?ʹ 
ʹWhat other options does he have?ʹ said Hermione bitterly. ʹHe can hardly say, 
ʺSorry, everyone, Dumbledore warned me this might happen, the Azkaban 
guards have joined Lord Voldemortʺ ‐ stop whimpering, Ron ‐ ʺand now 
Voldemortʹs worst supporters have broken out, too.ʺ I mean, heʹs spent a good 
six months telling everyone you and Dumbledore are liars, hasnʹt he?ʹ 
Hermione ripped open the newspaper and began to read the report inside while 
Harry looked around the Great Hall. He could not understand why his fellow 
students were not looking scared or at least discussing the terrible piece of news 
on the front page, but very few of them took the newspaper every day like 
Hermione. There they all were, talking about homework and Quidditch and who 
knew what other rubbish, when outside these walls ten more Death Eaters had 
swollen Voldemortʹs ranks. 
He glanced up at the staff table. It was a different story there: Dumbledore and 
Professor McGonagall were deep in conversation, both looking extremely grave. 
Professor Sprout had the Prophet propped against a bottle of ketchup and was 
reading the front page with such concentration that she was not noticing the 
gentle drip of egg yolk falling into her lap from her stationary spoon. Meanwhile, 
at the far end of the table, Professor Umbridge was tucking into a bowl of 
porridge. For once her pouchy toadʹs eyes were not sweeping the Great Hall 
looking for misbehaving students. She scowled as she gulped down her food and 
every now and then she shot a malevolent glance up the table to where 
Dumbledore and McGonagall were talking so intently. 

ʹOh my ‐ʹ said Hermione wonderingly, still staring at the newspaper. 
ʹWhat now?ʹ said Harry quickly; he was feeling jumpy. 
ʹItʹs… horrible,ʹ said Hermione, looking shaken. She folded back page ten of the 
newspaper and handed it to Harry and Ron. 
TRAGIC DEMISE OF MINISTRY OF MAGIC WORKER St Mungoʹs Hospital 
promised a full inquiry last night after Ministry of Magic worker Broderick Bode, 49, 
was discovered dead in his . bed, strangled by a pot plant. Healers called to the scene were 
unable to revive Mr Bode, who had been injured in a workplace accident some weeks prior 
to his death. 
Healer Miriam Strout, who was in charge of Mr Bodes ward at the time of the incident, 
has been suspended on full pay and was unavailable for comment yesterday, but a 
spokeswizard for the hospital said in a statement: 
ʹSt Mungoʹs deeply regrets the death of Mr Bode, whose health was improving steadily 
prior to this tragic accident.
ʹWe have strict guidelines on the decorations permitted on our wards but it appears that 
Healer Strout, busy over the Christmas period, overlooked the dangers of the plant on Mr 
Bodeʹs bedside table. As his speech and mobility improved, Healer Strout encouraged Mr 
Bode to look after the plant himself, unaware that it was not an innocent Flitterbloom, 
but a cutting of Devilʹs Snare which, when touched by the convalescent Mr Bode, 
throttled him instantly.
ʹSt Mungoʹs is as yet unable to account for the presence of the plant on the ward and 
asks any witch or wizard with information to come forward.ʹ
ʹBode…ʹ said Ron. ʹBode. It rings a bell…ʹ 
ʹWe saw him,ʹ Hermione whispered. ʹIn St Mungoʹs, remember? He was in the 
bed opposite Lockhartʹs, just lying there, staring at the ceiling. And we saw the 
Devilʹs Snare arrive. She ‐ the Healer ‐ said it was a Christmas present.ʹ 
Harry looked back at the story. A feeling of horror was rising like bile in his 
throat. 
ʹHow come we didnʹt recognise Devils Snare? Weʹve seen it before… we couldʹve 
stopped this from happening.ʹ 

ʹWho expects Devils Snare to turn up in a hospital disguised as a pot plant?ʹ said 
Ron sharply. ʹItʹs not our fault, whoever sent it to the bloke is to blame! They 
must be a real prat, why didnʹt they check what they were buying?ʹ 
ʹOh, come on, Ron!ʹ said Hermione shakily. ʹI donʹt think anyone could put 
Devils Snare in a pot and not realise it tries to kill whoever touches it? This ‐ this 
was murder… a clever murder, as well… if the plant was sent anonymously, 
howʹs anyone ever going to find out who did it?ʹ 
Harry was not thinking about Devilʹs Snare. He was remembering taking the lift 
down to the ninth level of the Ministry on the day of his hearing and the sallow‐
faced man who had got in on the. Atrium level. •» 
ʹI met Bode,ʹ he said slowly. ʹI saw him at the Ministry with your= dad.ʹ :• 
Rons mouth fell open. 
ʹIʹve heard Dad talk about him at home! He was an Unspeakable 
‐ he worked in the Department of Mysteries!ʹ 
They looked at each other for a moment, then Hermione pulled the newspaper 
back towards her, closed it, glared for a moment at the pictures of the ten 
escaped Death Eaters on the front, then leapt to her feet. 
ʹWhere are you going?ʹ said Ron, startled. 
To send a letter,ʹ said Hermione, swinging her bag on to her shoulder. ʹIt… well, I 
donʹt know whether… but itʹs worth trying… and Iʹm the only one who can.ʹ 
ʹI hate it when she does that,ʹ grumbled Ron, as he and Harry got up from the 
table and made their own, slower way out of the Great Hall. ʹWould it kill her to 
tell us what sheʹs up to for once? Itʹd take her about ten more seconds ‐ hey, 
Hagrid!ʹ 
Hagrid was standing beside the doors into the Entrance Hall, waiting for a 
crowd of Ravenclaws to pass. He was still as heavily bruised as he had been on 
the day he had come back from his mission to the giants and there was a new cut 
right across the bridge of his nose. 

ʹAll righʹ, you two?ʹ he said, trying to muster a smile but managing only a kind of 
pained grimace. 
ʹAre you OK, Hagrid?ʹ asked Harry, following him as he lumbered after the 
Ravenclaws. 
ʹFine, fine,ʹ said Hagrid with a feeble assumption of airiness; he waved a hand 
and narrowly missed concussing a frightened‐looking Professor Vector, who was 
passing. ʹJusʹ busy, yeh know, usual stuff 
‐ lessons ter prepare ‐ couple oʹ salamanders got scale rot ‐ anʹ Iʹm on probation,ʹ 
he mumbled. 
ʹYouʹre on probation?ʹ said Ron very loudly, so that many of the passing students 
looked around curiously. ʹSorry ‐ I mean ‐ youʹre on probation?ʹ he whispered. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Hagrid. ʺSʹno moreʹn I expected, ter tell yeh the truth. Yeh mighʹ 
notʹve picked up on it, buʹ that inspection didnʹ go too well, yeh know… 
anyway,ʹ he sighed deeply. ʹBesʹ go anʹ rub a bit more chilli powder on them 
salamanders or their tailsʹll be hanginʹ off ʹem next. See yeh, Harry… Ron…ʹ 
He trudged away, out of the front doors and down the stone steps into the damp 
grounds. Harry watched him go, wondering how much more bad news he could 
stand. 
* 
The fact that Hagrid was now on probation became common knowledge within 
the school over the next few days, but to Harryʹs indignation, hardly anybody 
appeared to be upset about it; indeed, some people, Draco Malfoy prominent 
among them, seemed positively gleeful. As for the freakish death of an obscure 
Department of Mysteries employee in St Mungoʹs, Harry, Ron and Hermione 
seemed to be the only people who knew or cared. There was only one topic of 
conversation in the corridors now: the ten escaped Death Eaters, whose story had 
finally filtered through the school from those few people who read the 
newspapers. Rumours were flying that some of the convicts had been spotted in 
Hogsmeade, that they were supposed to be hiding out in the Shrieking Shack 
and that they were going to break into Hogwarts, just as Sirius Black had once 
done. 

Those who came from wizarding families had grown up hearing the names of 
these Death Eaters spoken with almost as much fear as Voldemorts; the crimes 
they had committed during the days of Voldemortʹs reign of terror were 
legendary. There were relatives of their victims among the Hogwarts students, 
who now found themselves the unwilling objects of a gruesome sort of reflected 
fame as they walked the corridors: Susan Bones, whose uncle, aunt and cousins 
had all died at the hands of one of the ten, said miserably during Herbology that 
she now had a good idea what it felt like to be Harry. 
ʹAnd I donʹt know how you stand it ‐ itʹs horrible,ʹ she said bluntly, dumping far 
too much dragon manure on her tray of Screechsnap seedlings, causing them to 
wriggle and squeak in discomfort. 
It was true that Harry was the subject of much renewed muttering and pointing 
in the corridors these days, yet he thought he detected a slight difference in the 
tone of the whisperersʹ voices. They sounded curious rather than hostile now, 
and once or twice he was sure he overheard snatches of conversation that 
suggested that the speakers were not satisfied with the Prophets version of how 
and why ten Death Eaters had managed to break out of the Azkaban fortress. In 
their confusion and fear, these doubters now seemed to be turning to the only 
other explanation available to them: the one that Harry and Dumbledore had 
been expounding since the previous year. 
It was not only the studentsʹ mood that had changed. It was now quite common 
to come across two or three teachers conversing in low, urgent whispers in the 
corridors, breaking off their conversations the moment they saw students 
approaching. 
They obviously canʹt talk freely in the staff room any more,ʹ said Hermione in a 
low voice, as she, Harry and Ron passed Professors McGonagall, Flitwick and 
Sprout huddled together outside the Charms classroom one day. ʹNot with 
Umbridge there.ʹ 
ʹReckon they know anything new?ʹ said Ron, gazing back over his shoulder at 
the three teachers. 
ʹIf they do, weʹre not going to hear about it, are we?ʹ said Harry angrily. ʹNot 
after Decree… what number are we on now?ʹ For new notices had appeared on 
the house noticeboards the morning after news of the Azkaban breakout: ^ 

BY ORDER OF THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS ^
Teachers are hereby banned from giving students any information •ʺ that is not strictly 
related to the subjects they are paid to teach. 
The above is in accordance with Educational Decree Number Twenty‐six.
Signed: Dolores jane Umbridge, High Inquisitor
This latest Decree had been the subject of a great number of jokes among the 
students. Lee Jordan had pointed out to Umbridge that by the terms of the new 
rule she was not allowed to tell Fred and George off for playing Exploding Snap 
in the back of the class. 
ʹExploding Snapʹs got nothing to do with Defence Against the Dark Arts, 
Professor! Thatʹs not information relating to your subject!ʹ 
When Harry next saw Lee, the back of his hand was bleeding rather badly. Harry 
recommended essence of Murtlap. 
Harry had thought the breakout from Azkaban might have humbled Umbridge a 
little, that she might have been abashed at the catastrophe that had occurred 
right under the nose of her beloved Fudge. It seemed, however, to have only 
intensified her furious desire to bring every aspect of life at Hogwarts under her 
personal control. She seemed determined at the very least to achieve a sacking 
before long, and the only question was whether it would be Professor Trelawney 
or Hagrid who went first. 
Every single Divination and Care of Magical Creatures lesson was now 
conducted in the presence of Umbridge and her clipboard. She lurked by the fire 
in the heavily perfumed tower room, interrupting Professor Trelawneyʹs 
increasingly hysterical talks with difficult questions about ornithomancy and 
heptomology, insisting that she predicted studentsʹ answers before they gave 
them and demanding that she demonstrate her skill at the crystal ball, the tea 
leaves and the rune stones in turn. Harry thought Professor Trelawney might 
soon crack under the strain. Several times he passed her in the corridors ‐ in itself 
a very unusual occurrence as she generally remained in her tower room ‐ 
muttering wildly to herself, wringing her hands and shooting terrified glances 
over her shoulder, and all the while giving off a powerful smell of cooking 
sherry. If he had not been so worried about Hagrid, he would have felt sorry for 

her ‐ but if one of them was to be ousted from their job, there could be only one 
choice for Harry as to who should remain. 
Unfortunately, Harry could not see that Hagrid was putting up a better show 
than Trelawney. Though he seemed to be following Hermioneʹs advice and had 
shown them nothing more frightening than a Crup — a creature 
indistinguishable from a Jack Russell terrier except for its forked tail ‐ since 
before Christmas, he too seemed to have lost his nerve. He was oddly distracted 
and jumpy during lessons, losing the thread of what he was saying to the class, 
answering questions wrongly, and all the time glancing anxiously at Umbridge. 
He was also more distant with Harry, Ron and Hermione than he had ever been 
before, and had expressly forbidden them to visit him after dark. 
ʹIf she catches yeh, itʹll be all of our necks on the line,ʹ he told them flatly, and 
with no desire to do anything that might jeopardise his job further they abstained 
from walking down to his hut in the evenings. 
It seemed to Harry that Umbridge was steadily depriving him of everything that 
made his life at Hogwarts worth living: visits to Hagridʹs house, letters from 
Sirius, his Firebolt and Quidditch. He took his revenge the only way he could ‐ 
by redoubling his efforts for the DA. 
Harry was pleased to see that all of them, even Zacharias Smith, had been 
spurred on to work harder than ever by the news that ten more Death Eaters 
were now on the loose, but in nobody was this improvement more pronounced 
than in Neville. The news of his parentsʹ attackersʹ escape had wrought a strange 
and even slightly alarming change in him. He had not once mentioned his 
meeting with Harry, Ron and Hermione on the closed ward in St Mungoʹs and, 
taking their lead from him, they had kept quiet about it too. Nor had he said 
anything on the subject of Bellatrix and her fellow torturersʹ escape. In fact, 
Neville barely spoke during the DA meetings any more, but worked relentlessly 
on every new jinx and counter‐curse Harry taught them, his plump face screwed 
up in concentration, apparently indifferent to injuries or accidents and working 
harder than anyone else in the room. He was improving so fast it was quite 
unnerving and when Harry taught them the Shield Charm ‐ a means of 
deflecting minor jinxes so that they rebounded upon the attacker ‐ only 
Hermione mastered the charm faster than Neville. 
Harry would have given a great deal to be making as much progress at 
Occlumency as Neville was making during the DA meetings. Harryʹs sessions 

with Snape, which had started badly enough, were not improving. On the 
contrary Harry felt he was getting worse with every lesson. 
Before he had started studying Occlumency, his scar had prickled occasionally, 
usually during the night, or else following one of those strange flashes of 
Voldemortʹs thoughts or mood that he experienced every now and then. 
Nowadays, however, his scar hardly ever stopped prickling, and he often felt 
lurches of annoyance or cheerfulness that were unrelated to what was happening 
to him at the time, which were always accompanied by a particularly painful 
twinge from his scar. He had the horrible impression that he was slowly turning 
into a kind of aerial that was tuned in to tiny fluctuations in Voldemorts mood, 
and he was sure he could date this increased sensitivity firmly from his first 
Occlumency lesson with Snape. What was more, he was now dreaming about 
walking down the corridor towards the entrance to the Department of Mysteries 
almost every night, dreams which always culminated in him standing longingly 
in front of the plain black door. 
ʹMaybe itʹs a bit like an illness,ʹ said Hermione, looking concerned when Harry 
confided in her and Ron. ʹA fever or something. It has to get worse before it gets 
better.ʹ 
The lessons with Snape are making it worse,ʹ said Harry flatly. ʹIʹm getting sick of 
my scar hurting and Iʹm getting bored with walking down that corridor every 
night.ʹ He rubbed his forehead angrily. ʹI just wish the door would open, Iʹm sick 
of standing staring at it ‐ʹ 
Thatʹs not funny,ʹ said Hermione sharply. ʹDumbledore doesnʹt want you to have 
dreams about that corridor at all, or he wouldnʹt have asked Snape to teach you 
Occlumency. Youʹre just going to have to work a bit harder in your lessons.ʹ 
ʹI am working!ʹ said Harry nettled. ʹYou try it some time ‐ Snape trying to get 
inside your head ‐ itʹs not a bundle of laughs, you know!ʹ 
ʹMaybe…ʹ said Ron slowly. 
ʹMaybe what?ʹ said Hermione, rather snappishly. 
ʹMaybe itʹs not Harryʹs fault he canʹt close his mind,ʹ said Ron darkly. 
ʹWhat do you mean?ʹ said Hermione. 

ʹWell, maybe Snape isnʹt really trying to help Harry…ʹ 
Harry and Hermione stared at him. Ron looked darkly and meaningfully from 
one to the other. 
ʹMaybe,ʹ he said again, in a lower voice, ʹheʹs actually trying to open Harryʹs 
mind a bit wider… make it easier for You‐Know—ʹ 
ʹShut up, Ron,ʹ said Hermione angrily. ʹHow many times have you suspected 
Snape, and when have you ever been right? Dumbledore trusts him, he works 
for the Order, that ought to be enough.ʹ 
ʹHe used to be a Death Eater,ʹ said Ron stubbornly. ʹAnd weʹve never seen proof 
that he really swapped sides.ʹ 
ʹDumbledore trusts him,ʹ Hermione repeated. ʹAnd if we canʹt trust Dumbledore, 
we canʹt trust anyone.ʹ 
* 
With so much to worry about and so much to do ‐ startling amounts of 
homework that frequently kept the fifth‐years working until past midnight, 
secret DA sessions and regular classes with Snape ‐January seemed to be passing 
alarmingly fast. Before Harry knew it, February had arrived, bringing with it 
wetter and warmer weather and the prospect of the second Hogsmeade visit of 
the year. Harry had had very little time to spare for conversations with Cho since 
they had agreed to visit the village together, but suddenly found himself facing a 
Valentineʹs Day spent entirely in her company. 
On the morning of the fourteenth he dressed particularly carefully. He and Ron 
arrived at breakfast just in time for the arrival of the post owls. Hedwig was not 
there ‐ not that Harry had expected her ‐ but Hermione was tugging a letter from 
the beak of an unfamiliar brown owl as they sat down. 
ʹAnd about time! If it hadnʹt come today…ʹ she said, eagerly tearing open the 
envelope and pulling out a small piece of parchment. Her eyes sped from left to 
right as she read through the message and a grimly pleased expression spread 
across her face. 
ʹListen, Harry,ʹ she said, looking up at him, ʹthis is really important. Do you think 
you could meet me in the Three Broomsticks around midday?ʹ 

ʹWell… I dunno,ʹ said Harry uncertainly. ʹCho might be expecting me to spend 
the whole day with her. We never said what we were going to do.ʹ 
ʹWell, bring her along if you must,ʹ said Hermione urgently. ʹBut will you come?ʹ 
ʹWell… all right, but why?ʹ 
ʹI havenʹt got time to tell you now, Iʹve got to answer this quickly.ʹ 
And she hurried out of the Great Hall, the letter clutched in one hand and a piece 
of toast in the other. 
ʹAre you coming?ʹ Harry asked Ron, but he shook his head, looking glum. 
ʹI canʹt come into Hogsmeade at all; Angelina wants a full dayʹs training. Like itʹs 
going to help; weʹre the worst team Iʹve ever seen. You should see Sloper and 
Kirke, theyʹre pathetic, even worse than I am.ʹ He heaved a great sigh. ʹI dunno 
why Angelina wonʹt just let me resign.ʹ 
ʹItʹs because youʹre good when youʹre on form, thatʹs why,ʹ said Harry irritably. 
He found it very hard to be sympathetic to Ronʹs plight, when he himself would 
have given almost anything to be playing in the forthcoming match against 
Hufflepuff. Ron seemed to have noticed Harrys tone, because he did not mention 
Quidditch again during breakfast, and there was a slight frostiness in the way 
they said goodbye to each other shortly afterwards. Ron departed for the 
Quidditch pitch and Harry, after attempting to flatten his hair while staring at 
his reflection in the back of a teaspoon, proceeded alone to the Entrance Hall to 
meet Cho, feeling very apprehensive and wondering what on earth they were 
going to talk about. 
She was waiting for him a little to the side of the oak front doors, looking very 
pretty with her hair tied back in a long pony‐tail. Harryʹs feet seemed to be too 
big for his body as he walked towards her and he was suddenly horribly aware 
of his arms and how stupid they must look swinging at his sides. 
ʹHi,ʹ said Cho slightly breathlessly. 
ʹHi,ʹ said Harry. 

They stared at each other for a moment, then Harry said, ʹWell ‐ er — shall we 
go, then?ʹ 
ʹOh ‐ yes…ʹ 
They joined the queue of people being signed out by Filch, occasionally catching 
each otherʹs eye and grinning shiftily, but not talking to each other. Harry was 
relieved when they reached the fresh air, finding it easier to walk along in silence 
than just stand about looking awkward. It was a fresh, breezy sort of a day and 
as they passed the Quidditch stadium Harry glimpsed Ron and 
Ginny skimming along over the stands and felt a horrible pang that he was not 
up there with them. 
ʹYou really miss it, donʹt you?ʹ said Cho. 
He looked round and saw her watching him. 
ʹYeah,ʹ sighed Harry. ʹI do.ʹ 
ʹRemember the first time we played against each other, in the third year?ʹ she 
asked him. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, grinning. ʹYou kept blocking me.ʹ 
ʹAnd Wood told you not to be a gentleman and knock me off my broom if you 
had to,ʹ said Cho, smiling reminiscently. ʹ1 heard he got taken on by Pride of 
Portree, is that right?ʹ 
ʹNah, it was Puddlemere United; I saw him at the World Cup last year.ʹ 
ʹOh, I saw you there, too, remember? We were on the same campsite. It was 
really good, wasnʹt it?ʹ 
The subject of the Quidditch World Cup carried them all the way down the drive 
and out through the gates. Harry could hardly believe how easy it was to talk to 
her ‐ no more difficult, in fact, than talking to Ron and Hermione ‐ and he was 
just starting to feel confident and cheerful when a large gang of Slytherin girls 
passed them, including Pansy Parkinson. 

ʹPotter and Chang!ʹ screeched Pansy, to a chorus of snide giggles. ʹUrgh, Chang, I 
donʹt think much of your taste… at least Diggory was good‐looking!ʹ 
The girls sped up, talking and shrieking in a pointed fashion with many 
exaggerated glances back at Harry and Cho, leaving an embarrassed silence in 
their wake. Harry could think of nothing else to say about Quidditch, and Cho, 
slightly flushed, was watching her feet. 
ʹSo… where dʹyou want to go?ʹ Harry asked as they entered Hogsmeade. The 
High Street was full of students ambling up and down, peering into the shop 
windows and messing about together on the pavements. 
ʹOh… I donʹt mind,ʹ said Cho, shrugging. ʹUrn… shall we just have a look in the 
shops or something?ʹ 
They wandered towards Dervish and Banges. A large poster had been stuck up 
in the window and a few Hogsmeaders were looking at it. They moved aside 
when Harry and Cho approached and Harry found himself staring once more at 
the pictures of the ten escaped Death Eaters. The poster, ʹBy Order of the 
Ministry of Magicʹ, offered a thousand‐Galleon reward to any witch or wizard 
with information leading to the recapture of any of the convicts pictured. 
Ttʹs funny, isnʹt it,ʹ said Cho in a low voice, gazing up at the pictures of the Death 
Eaters, ʹremember when that Sirius Black escaped, and there were Dementors all 
over Hogsmeade looking for him? And now ten Death Eaters are on the loose 
and there are no Dementors anywhere…ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, tearing his eyes away from Bellatrix Lestrangeʹs face to glance 
up and down the High Street. ʹYeah, that is weird.ʹ 
He wasnʹt sorry that there were no Dementors nearby, but now he came to think 
of it, their absence was highly significant. They had not only let the Death Eaters 
escape, they werenʹt bothering to look for them… it looked as though they really 
were outside Ministry control now. 
The ten escaped Death Eaters were staring out of every shop window he and 
Cho passed. It started to rain as they passed Scrivenshaftʹs; cold, heavy drops of 
water kept hitting Harryʹs face and the back of his neck. 
ʹUrn… dʹyou want to get a coffee?ʹ said Cho tentatively, as the rain began to fall 
more heavily. 

ʹYeah, all right,ʹ said Harry, looking around. ʹWhere?ʹ 
ʹOh, thereʹs a really nice place just up here; havenʹt you ever been to Madam 
Puddifootʹs?ʹ she said brightly, leading him up a side road and into a small 
teashop that Harry had never noticed before. It was a cramped, steamy little 
place where everything seemed to have been decorated with frills or bows. 
Harry was reminded unpleasantly of Umbridgeʹs office. 
ʹCute, isnʹt it?ʹ said Cho happily. 
ʹEr… yeah,ʹ said Harry untruthfully. 
ʹLook, sheʹs decorated it for Valentineʹs Day!ʹ said Cho, indicating a number of 
golden cherubs that were hovering over each of the small, circular tables, 
occasionally throwing pink confetti over the occupants. 
ʹAaah…ʹ 
They sat down at the last remaining table, which was over by the steamy 
window. Roger Davies, the Ravenclaw Quidditch Captain,i was sitting about a 
foot and a half away with a pretty blonde girl. They were holding hands. The 
sight made Harry feel uncomfort‐. able, particularly when, looking around the 
teashop, he saw that it was full of nothing but couples, all of them holding 
hands. Perhaps Cho would expect him to hold her hand. 
ʹWhat can I get you, mʹdears?ʹ said Madam Puddifoot, a very stout woman with 
a shiny black bun, squeezing between their table and Roger Daviesʹs with great 
difficulty. ʹ 
Two coffees, please,ʹ said Cho. 
In the time it took for their coffees to arrive, Roger Davies and his girlfriend had 
started kissing over their sugar bowl. Harry wished they wouldnʹt; he felt that 
Davies was setting a standard with which Cho would soon expect him to 
compete. He felt his face growing hot and tried staring out of the window, but it 
was so steamed up he couldnʹt see the street outside. To postpone the moment 
when he would have to look at Cho, he stared up at the ceiling as though 
examining the paintwork and received a handful of confetti in the face from their 
hovering cherub. 

After a few more painful minutes, Cho mentioned Umbridge. Harry seized on 
the subject with relief and they passed a few happy moments abusing her, but 
the subject had already been so thoroughly canvassed during DA meetings it did 
not last very long. Silence fell again. Harry was very conscious of the slurping 
noises coming from the table next door and cast wildly around for something 
else to say. 
ʹEr… listen, dʹyou want to come with me to the Three Broomsticks at lunchtime? 
Iʹm meeting Hermione Granger there.ʹ 
Cho raised her eyebrows. 
ʹYouʹre meeting Hermione Granger? Today?ʹ 
ʹYeah. Well, she asked me to, so I thought I would. Dʹyou want to come with me? 
She said it wouldnʹt matter if you did.ʹ 
ʹOh… well… that was nice of her.ʹ 
But Cho did not sound as though she thought it was nice at all. On the contrary, 
her tone was cold and all of a sudden she looked rather forbidding. 
A few more minutes passed in total silence, Harry drinking his coffee so fast that 
he would soon need a fresh cup. Beside them, 
Roger Davies and his girlfriend seemed glued together at the lips. 
Choʹs hand was lying on the table beside her coffee and Harry was feeling a 
mounting pressure to take hold of it. Just do it, he told himself, as a fount of 
mingled panic and excitement surged up inside his chest, just reach out and grab 
it. Amazing, how much more difficult it was to extend his arm twelve inches and 
touch her hand than it was to snatch a speeding Snitch from midair… 
But just as he moved his hand forwards, Cho took hers off the table. She was 
now watching Roger Davies kissing his girlfriend with a mildly interested 
expression. 
ʹHe asked me out, you know,ʹ she said in a quiet voice. ʹA couple of weeks ago. 
Roger. I turned him down, though.ʹ 

Harry, who had grabbed the sugar bowl to excuse his sudden lunging movement 
across the table, could not think why she was telling him this. If she wished she 
were sitting at the next table being heartily kissed by Roger Davies, why had she 
agreed to come out with him? 
He said nothing. Their cherub threw another handful of confetti over them; some 
of it landed in the last cold dregs of coffee Harry had been about to drink. 
ʹI came in here with Cedric last year,ʹ said Cho. 
In the second or so it took for him to take in what she had said, Harryʹs insides 
had become glacial. He could not believe she wanted to talk about Cedric now, 
while kissing couples surrounded them and a cherub floated over their heads. 
Choʹs voice was rather higher when she spoke again. 
ʹIʹve been meaning to ask you for ages… did Cedric ‐ did he ‐ in ‐ in ‐ mention me 
at all before he died?ʹ 
This was the very last subject on earth Harry wanted to discuss, and least of all 
with Cho. 
ʹWell ‐ no ‐ʹ he said quietly. There ‐ there wasnʹt time for him to say anything. 
Erm… so… dʹyou… dʹyou get to see a lot of Quidditch in the holidays? You 
support the Tornados, right?ʹ 
His voice sounded falsely bright and cheery. To his horror, he saw that her eyes 
were swimming with tears again, just as they had been after the last DA meeting 
before Christmas. 
ʹLook,ʹ he said desperately, leaning in so that nobody else could overhear, ʹletʹs 
not talk about Cedric right now… letʹs talk about something else 
But this, apparently, was quite the wrong thing to say. 
ʹI thought,ʹ she said, tears spattering down on to the table, ʹI thought youʹd u ‐ u ‐ 
understand! I need to talk about it! Surely you n ‐ need to talk about itʹt ‐ too! 1 
mean, you saw it happen, d ‐ didnʹt you?ʹ 
Everything was going nightmarishly wrong; Roger Daviesʹs girlfriend had even 
unglued herself to look round at Cho crying. 

ʹWell ‐ I have talked about it,ʹ Harry said in a whisper, ʹto Ron and Hermione, but 
‐ʹ 
ʹOh, youʹll talk to Hermione Granger!ʹ she said shrilly, her face now shining with 
tears. Several more kissing couples broke apart to stare. ʹBut you wonʹt talk to 
me! P ‐ perhaps it would be best if we just… just p ‐ paid and you went and met 
up with Hermione G ‐ Granger, like you obviously want to!ʹ 
Harry stared at her, utterly bewildered, as she seized a frilly napkin and dabbed 
at her shining face with it. 
ʹCho?ʹ he said weakly, wishing Roger would seize his girlfriend and start kissing 
her again to stop her goggling at him and Cho. 
ʹGo on, leave!ʹ she said, now crying into the napkin. ʹ1 donʹt know why you 
asked me out in the first place if youʹre going to make arrangements to meet 
other girls right after me… how many are you meeting after Hermione?ʹ 
ʹItʹs not like that!ʹ said Harry, and he was so relieved at finally understanding 
what she was annoyed about that he laughed, which he realised a split second 
too late was also a mistake. 
Cho sprang to her feet. The whole tearoom was quiet and everybody was 
watching them now. 
Til see you around, Harryʹ she said dramatically, and hiccoughing slightly she 
dashed to the door, wrenched it open and hurried off into the pouring rain. 
ʹCho!ʹ Harry called after her, but the door had already swung shut behind her 
with a tuneful tinkle. 
There was total silence within the teashop. Every eye was on Harry. He threw a 
Galleon down on to the table, shook pink confetti out of his hair, and followed 
Cho out of the door. 
It was raining hard now and she was nowhere to be seen. He simply did not 
understand what had happened; half an hour ago they had been getting along 
fine. 
ʹWomen!ʹ he muttered angrily, sloshing down the rain‐washed street with his 
hands in his pockets. ʹWhat did she want to talk about Cedric for, anyway? Why 

does she always want to drag up a subject that makes her act like a human 
hosepipe?ʹ 
He turned right and broke into a splashy run, and within minutes he was turning 
into the doorway of the Three Broomsticks. He knew he was too early to meet 
Hermione, but he thought it likely there would be someone in here with whom 
he could spend the intervening time. He shook his wet hair out of his eyes and 
looked around. Hagrid was sitting alone in a corner, looking morose. 
ʹHi, Hagrid!ʹ he said, when he had squeezed through the crammed tables and 
pulled up a chair beside him. 
Hagrid jumped and looked down at Harry as though he barely recognised him. 
Harry saw that he had two fresh cuts on his face and several new bruises. 
ʹOh, itʹs yeh, Harry,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹYeh all righT 
ʹYeah, Iʹm fine,ʹ lied Harry; but, next to this battered and mournful‐looking 
Hagrid, he felt he didnʹt really have much to complain about. ʹEr ‐ are you OK?ʹ 
ʹMe?ʹ said Hagrid. ʹOh yeah, Iʹm grand, Harry, grand.ʹ 
He gazed into the depths of his pewter tankard, which was the size of a large 
bucket, and sighed. Harry didnʹt know what to say to him. They sat side by side 
in silence for a moment. Then Hagrid said abruptly, ʹIn the same boat, yeh anʹ 
me, arenʹ we, ʹArry?ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYeah… Iʹve said it before… both outsiders, like,ʹ said Hagrid, nodding wisely. 
ʹAnʹ both orphans. Yeah… both orphans.ʹ 
He took a great swig from his tankard. 
ʹMakes a diffʹrence, havinʹ a decent family,ʹ he said. ʹMe dad was decent. Anʹ 
your mum anʹ dad were decent. If theyʹd lived, life woulda bin diffʹrent, eh?ʹ 
ʹYeah… Iʹsʹpose,ʹ said Harry cautiously. Hagrid seemed to be in a very strange 
mood. 
ʹFamily,ʹ said Hagrid gloomily. ʹWhatever yeh say, bloodʹs important…ʹ 

And he wiped a trickle of it out of his eye. 
ʹHagrid,ʹ said Harry, unable to stop himself, ʹwhere are you getting all these 
injuries?ʹ 
ʹEh?ʹ said Hagrid, looking startled. ʹWhaʹ injuries?ʹ 
ʹAll those!ʹ said Harry, pointing at Hagridʹs face. 
ʹOh… thaʹs jusʹ normal bumps anʹ bruises, Harry,ʹ said Hagrid dismissively, ʹ1 
got a rough job.ʹ 
He drained his tankard, set it back on the table and got to his feet. 
Til be seeinʹ yeh, Harry… take care now.ʹ 
And he lumbered out of the pub looking wretched, and disappeared into the 
torrential rain. Harry watched him go, feeling miserable. Hagrid was unhappy 
and he was hiding something, but he seemed determined not to accept help. 
What was going on? But before Harry could think about it any further, he heard 
a voice calling his name. 
ʹHarry! Harry, over here!ʹ 
Hermione was waving at him from the other side of the room. He got up and 
made his way towards her through the crowded pub. He was still a few tables 
away when he realised that Hermione was not alone. She was sitting at a table 
with the unlikeliest pair of drinking mates he could ever have imagined: Luna 
Lovegood and none other than Rita Skeeter, ex‐journalist on the Daily Prophet 
and one of Hermioneʹs least favourite people in the world. 
ʹYouʹre early!ʹ said Hermione, moving along to give him room to sit down. ʹI 
thought you were with Cho, I wasnʹt expecting you for another hour at least!ʹ 
ʹCho?ʹ said Rita at once, twisting round in her seat to stare avidly at Harry. ʹA 
girl?ʹ 
She snatched up her crocodile‐skin handbag and groped within it. 
ʹItʹs none of your business if Harryʹs been with a hundred girls,ʹ Hermione told 
Rita coolly. ʹSo you can put that away right now.ʹ 

Rita had been on the point of withdrawing an acid‐green quill from her bag. 
Looking as though she had been forced to swallow Stinksap, she snapped her 
bag shut again. 
ʹWhat are you up to?ʹ Harry asked, sitting down and staring from Rita to Luna to 
Hermione. 
ʹLittle Miss Perfect was just about to tell me when you arrived,ʹ said Rita, taking a 
large slurp of her drink. ʹI suppose Iʹm allowed to talk to him, am 1?ʹ she shot at 
Hermione. 
ʹYes, I suppose you are,ʹ said Hermione coldly. 
Unemployment did not suit Rita. The hair that had once been set in elaborate 
curls now hung lank and unkempt around her face. The scarlet paint on her two‐
inch talons was chipped and there were a couple of false jewels missing from her 
winged glasses. She took another great gulp of her drink and said out of the 
corner of her mouth, ʹPretty girl, is she, Harry?ʹ 
ʹOne more word about Harryʹs love life and the dealʹs off and thatʹs a promise,ʹ 
said Hermione irritably. 
ʹWhat deal?ʹ said Rita, wiping her mouth on the back of her hand. ʹYou havenʹt 
mentioned a deal yet, Miss Prissy, you just told me to turn up. Oh, one of these 
days…ʺ She took a deep shuddering breath. 
ʹYes, yes, one of these days youʹll write more horrible stories about Harry and 
me,ʹ said Hermione indifferently. ʹFind someone who cares, why donʹt you?ʹ 
Theyʹve run plenty of horrible stories about Harry this year without my help,ʹ 
said Rita, shooting a sideways look at him over the top of her glass and adding in 
a rough whisper, ʹHow has that made you feel, Harry? Betrayed? Distraught? 
Misunderstood?ʹ 
ʹHe feels angry, of course,ʹ said Hermione in a hard, clear voice. ʹBecause heʹs 
told the Minister for Magic the truth and the Ministerʹs too much of an idiot to 
believe him.ʹ 
ʹSo you actually stick to it, do you, that He Who Must Not Be Named is back?ʹ 
said Rita, lowering her glass and subjecting Harry to a piercing stare while her 
finger strayed longingly to the clasp of the crocodile bag. ʹYou stand by all this 

garbage Dumbledoreʹs been telling everybody about You‐Know‐Who returning 
and you being the sole witness?ʹ 
ʹI wasnʹt the sole witness,ʹ snarled Harry. There were a dozen‐odd Death Eaters 
there as well. Want their names?ʹ 
ʹIʹd love them,ʹ breathed Rita, now fumbling in her bag once more and gazing at 
him as though he was the most beautiful thing she had ever seen. ʹA great bold 
headline: ʺPotter Accuses…ʺ A sub‐heading, ʺHarry Potter Names Death Eaters Still 
Among Usʺ. And then, beneath a nice big photograph of you, ʺDisturbed teenage 
survivor of You‐Know‐Whoʹs attack, Harry Potter, 15, caused outrage yesterday by 
accusing respectable and prominent members oj the wizarding community oj being Death 
Eaters …ʺʹ 
The Quick‐Quotes Quill was actually in her hand and halfway to her mouth 
when the rapturous expression on her face died. 
ʹBut of course,ʹ she said, lowering the quill and looking daggers at Hermione, 
ʹLittle Miss Perfect wouldnʹt want that story out there, would she?ʹ 
ʹAs a matter of fact,ʹ said Hermione sweetly, ʹthatʹs exactly what Little Miss 
Perfect does want.ʹ 
Rita stared at her. So did Harry. Luna, on the other hand, sang ʹWeasley is our 
Kingʹ dreamily under her breath and stirred her drink with a cocktail onion on a 
stick. 
ʹYou want me to report what he says about He Who Must Not Be Named?ʹ Rita 
asked Hermione in a hushed voice. 
ʹYes, I do,ʹ said Hermione. The true story. All the facts. Exactly as Harry reports 
them. Heʹll give you all the details, heʹll tell you the names of the undiscovered 
Death Eaters he saw there, heʹll tell you what Voldemort looks like now ‐ oh, get 
a grip on yourself,ʹ she added contemptuously, throwing a napkin across the 
table, for, at the sound of Voldemortʹs name, Rita had jumped so badly she had 
slopped half her glass of Firewhisky down herself. 
Rita blotted the front of her grubby raincoat, still staring at Hermione. Then she 
said baldly, The Prophet wouldnʹt print it. In case you havenʹt noticed, nobody 
believes his cock‐and‐bull story. Everyone thinks heʹs delusional. Now, if you let 
me write the story from that angle ‐ʹ 

ʹWe donʹt need another story about how Harryʹs lost his marbles!ʹ said Hermione 
angrily. Weʹve had plenty of those already, thank you! I want him given the 
opportunity to tell the truth!ʹ 
Thereʹs no market for a story like that,ʹ said Rita coldly. 
ʹYou mean the Prophet wonʹt print it because Fudge wonʹt let them,ʹ said 
Hermione irritably. 
Rita gave Hermione a long, hard look. Then, leaning forwards across the table 
towards her, she said in a businesslike tone, ʹAll right, Fudge is leaning on the 
Prophet, but it comes to the same thing. They wonʹt print a story that shows 
Harry in a good light. Nobody wants to read it. Itʹs against the public mood. This 
last Azkaban breakout has got people quite worried enough. People just donʹt 
want to believe You‐Know‐Whos back.ʹ 
ʹSo the Daily Prophet exists to tell people what they want to hear, does it?ʹ said 
Hermione scathingly. 
Rita sat up straight again, her eyebrows raised, and drained her glass of 
Firewhisky. 
The Prophet exists to sell itself, you silly girl,ʹ she said coldly. 
ʹMy dad thinks itʹs an awful paper,ʹ said Luna, chipping into the conversation 
unexpectedly. Sucking on her cocktail onion, she gazed at Rita with her 
enormous, protuberant, slightly mad eyes. ʹHe publishes important stories he 
thinks the public needs to know. He doesnʹt care about making money.ʹ 
Rita looked disparagingly at Luna. 
ʹIʹm guessing your father runs some stupid little village newsletter?ʹ she said. 
ʹProbably, Twenty‐Jive Ways to Mingle With Muggles and the dates of the next 
Bring and Fly Sale?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Luna, dipping her onion back into her Gillywater, ʹheʹs the editor of The 
Quibbler.ʹ 
Rita snorted so loudly that people at a nearby table looked round in alarm. 

ʹʺImportant stories he thinks the public needs to knowʺ, eh?ʹ she said witheringly. 
ʹI could manure my garden with the contents of that rag.ʹ 
ʹWell, this is your chance to raise the tone of it a bit, isnʹt it?ʹ said Hermione 
pleasantly. ʹLuna says her fatherʹs quite happy to take Harryʹs interview. Thatʹs 
whoʹll be publishing it.ʹ 
Rita stared at them both for a moment, then let out a great whoop of laughter. 
ʹThe Quibbler!ʹ she said, cackling. ʹYou think people will take him seriously if heʹs 
published in The QuibblerT
ʹSome people wonʹt,ʹ said Hermione in a level voice. ʹBut the Daily Prophetʹs 
version of the Azkaban breakout had some gaping holes in it. I think a lot of 
people will be wondering whether there isnʹt a better explanation of what 
happened, and if thereʹs an alternative story available, even if it is published in a 
‐ʹ she glanced sideways at Luna, ʹin a ‐ well, an unusual magazine ‐ I think they 
might be rather keen to read it.ʹ 
Rita didnʹt say anything for a while, but eyed Hermione shrewdly, her head a 
little to one side. 
ʹAll right, letʹs say for a moment Iʹll do it,ʹ she said abruptly. ʹWhat kind of fee am 
I going to get?ʹ 
ʹI donʹt think Daddy exactly pays people to write for the magazine,ʹ said Luna 
dreamily. They do it because itʹs an honour and, of course, to see their names in 
print.ʹ 
Rita Skeeter looked as though the taste of Stinksap was strong in her mouth 
again as she rounded on Hermione. 
ʹIʹm supposed to do this/or/ree?ʹ 
ʹWell, yes,ʹ said Hermione calmly, taking a sip of her drink. ʹOtherwise, as you 
very well know, 1 will inform the authorities that you are an unregistered 
Animagus. Of course, the Prophet might give you rather a lot for an insiderʹs 
account of life in Azkaban.ʹ 
Rita looked as though she would have liked nothing better than to seize the 
paper umbrella sticking out of Hermioneʹs drink and thrust it up her nose. 

ʹI donʹt suppose Iʹve got any choice, have I?ʹ said Rita, her voice shaking slightly. 
She opened her crocodile bag once more, withdrew a piece of parchment, and 
raised her Quick‐Quotes Quill. 
ʹDaddy will be pleased,ʹ said Luna brightly. A muscle twitched in Ritaʹs jaw. 
ʹOK, Harry?ʹ said Hermione, turning to him. ʹReady to tell the public the truth?ʹ 
ʹI suppose,ʹ said Harry, watching Rita balancing the Quick‐Quotes Quill at the 
ready on the parchment between them. 
Tire away, then, Rita,ʹ said Hermione serenely, fishing a cherry out from the 
bottom of her glass. 
— CHAPTER TWENTY‐SIX — 
Seen and Unforeseen
Luna said vaguely that she did not know how soon Ritaʹs interview with Harry 
would appear in The Quibbler, that her father was expecting a lovely long article 
on recent sightings of Crumple‐Horned Snorkacks,ʺ‐ and of course, thatʹll be a 
very important story, so Harrys might have to wait for the following issue,ʹ said 
Luna. 
Harry had not found it an easy experience to talk about the night when 
Voldemort had returned. Rita had pressed him for every little detail and he had 
given her everything he could remember, knowing that this was his one big 
opportunity to tell the world the truth. He wondered how people would react to 
the story. He guessed that it would confirm a lot of people in the view that he 
was completely insane, not least because his story would be appearing alongside 
utter rubbish about Crumple‐Horned Snorkacks. But the breakout of Bellatrix 
Lestrange and her fellow Death Eaters had given Harry a burning desire to do 
something, whether or not it worked… 
ʹCanʹt wait to see what Umbridge thinks of you going public,ʹ said Dean, 
sounding awestruck at dinner on Monday night. Seamus was shovelling down 
large amounts of chicken and ham pie on Deanʹs other side, but Harry knew he 
was listening. 

ʹItʹs the right thing to do, Harry,ʹ said Neville, who was sitting opposite him. He 
was rather pale, but went on in a low voice, ʹIt must have been… tough… talking 
about it… was it?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ mumbled Harry, ʹbut people have got to know what Voldemorts capable 
of, havenʹt they?ʹ 
ʹThatʹs right,ʹ said Neville, nodding, ʹand his Death Eaters, too… people should 
know…ʹ 
Neville left his sentence hanging and returned to his baked potato. Seamus 
looked up, but when he caught Harrys eye he looked quickly back at his plate 
again. After a while, Dean, Seamus and Neville departed for the common room, 
leaving Harry and Hermione at the table waiting for Ron, who had not yet had 
dinner because of Quidditch practice. 
Cho Chang walked into the Hall with her friend Marietta. Harryʹs stomach gave 
an unpleasant lurch, but she did not look over at the Gryffindor table, and sat 
down with her back to him. 
ʹOh, I forgot to ask you,ʹ said Hermione brightly, glancing over at the Ravenclaw 
table, ʹwhat happened on your date with Cho? How come you were back so 
early?ʹ 
ʹEr… well, it was…ʹ said Harry, pulling a dish of rhubarb crumble towards him 
and helping himself to seconds, ʹa complete fiasco, now you mention it.ʹ 
And he told her what had happened in Madam Puddifootʹs teashop. 
ʹ… so then,ʹ he finished several minutes later, as the final bit of crumble 
disappeared, ʹshe jumps up, right, and says, ʺIʹll see you around, Harry,ʺ and 
runs out of the place!ʹ He put down his spoon and looked at Hermione. ʹ1 mean, 
what was all that about? What was going on?ʹ 
Hermione glanced over at the back of Choʹs head and sighed. 
ʹOh, Harryʹ she said sadly. ʹWell, Iʹm sorry, but you were a bit tactless.ʹ 
ʹMe, tactless?ʹ said Harry, outraged. ʹOne minute we were getting on fine, next 
minute she was telling me that Roger Davies asked her out and how she used to 

go and snog Cedric in that stupid teashop ‐ how was I supposed to feel about 
that?ʹ 
ʹWell, you see,ʹ said Hermione, with the patient air of someone explaining that 
one plus one equals two to an over‐emotional toddler, ʹyou shouldnʹt have told 
her that you wanted to meet me halfway through your date.ʹ 
ʹBut, but,ʹ spluttered Harry, ʹbut ‐ you told me to meet you at twelve and to bring 
her along, how was I supposed to do that without telling her?ʹ 
ʹYou should have told her differently,ʹ said Hermione, still with that 
maddeningly patient air. ʹYou should have said it was really annoying, but Iʹd 
made you promise to come along to the Three Broomsticks, and you really didnʹt 
want to go, youʹd much rather spend the whole day with her, but unfortunately 
you thought you really ought to meet me and would she please, please come 
along with you and hopefully youʹd be able to get away more quickly. And it 
might have been a good idea to mention how ugly you think I am, too,ʹ 
Hermione added as an afterthought. 
ʹBut I donʹt think youʹre ugly,ʹ said Harry, bemused. 
Hermione laughed. 
ʹHarry youʹre worse than Ron… well, no, youʹre not,ʹ she sighed, as Ron himself 
came stumping into the Hall splattered with mud and looking grumpy. ʹLook ‐ 
you upset Cho when you said you were going to meet me, so she tried to make 
you jealous. It was her way of trying to find out how much you liked her.ʹ 
ʹIs that what she was doing?ʹ said Harry, as Ron dropped on to the bench 
opposite them and pulled every dish within reach towards him. ʹWell, wouldnʹt 
it have been easier if sheʹd just asked me whether I liked her better than you?ʹ 
ʹGirls donʹt often ask questions like that,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹWell, they should!ʹ said Harry forcefully. Then I couldʹve just told her I fancy 
her, and she wouldnʹt have had to get herself all worked up again about Cedric 
dying!ʹ 
ʹIʹm not saying what she did was sensible,ʹ said Hermione, as Ginny joined them, 
just as muddy as Ron and looking equally disgruntled. ʹIʹm just trying to make 
you see how she was feeling at the time.ʹ 

ʹYou should write a book,ʹ Ron told Hermione as he cut up his potatoes, 
ʹtranslating mad things girls do so boys can understand them.ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry fervently, looking over at the Ravenclaw table. Cho had just 
got up, and, still not looking at him, she left the Great Hall. Feeling rather 
depressed, he looked back at Ron and Ginny. ʹSo, how was Quidditch practice?ʹ 
ʹIt was a nightmare,ʹ said Ron in a surly voice. 
ʹOh come on,ʹ said Hermione, looking at Ginny, ʹIʹm sure it wasnʹt that ‐ʹ 
ʹYes, it was,ʹ said Ginny. ʹIt was appalling. Angelina was nearly in tears by the 
end of it.ʹ 
Ron and Ginny went off for baths after dinner; Harry and Hermione returned to 
the busy Gryffindor common room and their usual pile of homework. Harry had 
been struggling with a new star‐chart for Astronomy for half an hour when Fred 
and George turned up. 
ʹRon and Ginny not here?ʹ asked Fred, looking around as he pulled up a chair, 
and when Harry shook his head, he said, ʹGood. We were watching their 
practice. Theyʹre going to be slaughtered. Theyʹre complete rubbish without us.ʹ 
ʹCome on, Ginnyʹs not bad,ʹ said George fairly, sitting down next to Fred. 
ʹActually, 1 dunno how she got so good, seeing how we never let her play with 
us.ʹ 
ʹSheʹs been breaking into your broom shed in the garden since the age of six and 
taking each of your brooms out in turn when you werenʹt looking,ʹ said 
Hermione from behind her tottering pile of Ancient Rune books. 
ʹOh,ʹ said George, looking mildly impressed. ʹWell ‐ thatʹd explain it.ʹ 
ʹHas Ron saved a goal yet?ʹ asked Hermione, peering over the top of Magical 
Hieroglyphs and Logograms. 
ʹWell, he can do it if he doesnʹt think anyoneʹs watching him,ʹ said Fred, rolling 
his eyes. ʹSo all we have to do is ask the crowd to turn their backs and talk among 
themselves every time the Quaffle goes up his end on Saturday.ʹ 

He got up again and moved restlessly to the window, staring out across the dark 
grounds. 
ʹYou know, Quidditch was about the only thing in this place worth staying for.ʹ 
Hermione cast him a stern look. 
ʹYouʹve got exams coming!ʹ 
Told you already, weʹre not fussed about NEWTs,ʹ said Fred. The Snackboxes are 
ready to roll, we found out how to get rid of those boils, just a couple of drops of 
Murtlap essence sorts them, Lee put us on to it.ʹ 
George yawned widely and looked out disconsolately at the cloudy night sky. 
ʹI dunno if I even want to watch this match. If Zacharias Smith beats us I might 
have to kill myself.ʹ 
ʹKill him, more like,ʹ said Fred firmly. 
Thatʹs the trouble with Quidditch,ʹ said Hermione absent‐mindedly, once again 
bent over her Runes translation, ʹit creates all this bad feeling and tension 
between the houses.ʹ 
She looked up to find her copy of Spellmanʹs Syllabary, and caught Fred, George 
and Harry all staring at her with expressions of mingled disgust and incredulity 
on their faces. 
ʹWell, it does!ʹ she said impatiently. ʹItʹs only a game, isnʹt it?ʹ 
ʹHermione,ʹ said Harry, shaking his head, ʹyouʹre good on feelings and stuff, but 
you just donʹt understand about Quidditch.ʹ 
ʹMaybe not,ʹ she said darkly, returning to her translation, ʹbut at least my 
happiness doesnʹt depend on Ronʹs goalkeeping ability.ʹ 
And though Harry would rather have jumped off the Astronomy Tower than 
admit it to her, by the time he had watched the game the following Saturday he 
would have given any number of Galleons not to care about Quidditch either. 

The very best thing you could say about the match was that it was short; the 
Gryffindor spectators had to endure only twenty‐two minutes of agony. It was 
hard to say what the worst thing was: Harry thought it was a close‐run contest 
between Ronʹs fourteenth failed save, Sloper missing the Bludger but hitting 
Angelina in the mouth with his bat, and Kirke shrieking and falling backwards 
off his broom when Zacharias Smith zoomed at him carrying the Quaffle. The 
miracle was that Gryffindor only lost by ten points: Ginny managed to snatch the 
Snitch from right under Hufflepuff Seeker Summerbyʹs nose, so that the final 
score was two hundred and forty versus two hundred and thirty. 
ʹGood catch,ʹ Harry told Ginny back in the common room, where the atmosphere 
resembled that of a particularly dismal funeral. 
ʹI was lucky,ʹ she shrugged. ʹIt wasnʹt a very fast Snitch and Summerbyʹs got a 
cold, he sneezed and closed his eyes at exactly the wrong moment. Anyway, 
once youʹre back on the team ‐ʹ 
ʹGinny, Iʹve got a lifelong ban.ʹ 
ʹYouʹre banned as long as Umbridge is in the school,ʹ Ginny corrected him. 
Thereʹs a difference. Anyway, once youʹre back, I think 
Iʹll try out for Chaser. Angelina and Alicia are both leaving next year and I prefer 
goal‐scoring to Seeking anyway.ʹ 
Harry looked over at Ron, who was hunched in a corner, staring at his knees, a 
bottle of Butterbeer clutched in his hand. 
ʹAngelina still wonʹt let him resign,ʹ Ginny said, as though reading Harryʹs mind. 
ʹShe says she knows heʹs got it in him.ʹ 
Harry liked Angelina for the faith she was showing in Ron, but at the same time 
thought it would really be kinder to let him leave the team. Ron had left the pitch 
to another booming chorus of ʹWeasley is our Kingʹ sung with great gusto by the 
Slytherins, who were now favourites to win the Quidditch Cup. 
Fred and George wandered over. 
ʹI havenʹt even got the heart to take the mickey out of him,ʹ said Fred, looking 
over at Ronʹs crumpled figure. ʹMind you… when he missed the fourteenth ‐ʹ 

He made wild motions with his arms as though doing an upright doggy‐paddle. 
ʹ‐ well, Iʹll save it for parties, eh?ʹ 
Ron dragged himself up to bed shortly after this. Out of respect for his feelings, 
Harry waited a while before going up to the dormitory himself, so that Ron 
could pretend to be asleep if he wanted to. Sure enough, when Harry finally 
entered the room Ron was snoring a little too loudly to be entirely plausible. 
Harry got into bed, thinking about the match. It had been immensely frustrating 
watching from the sidelines. He was quite impressed by Ginnyʹs performance 
but he knew if he had been playing he could have caught the Snitch sooner… 
there had been a moment when it had been fluttering near Kirkeʹs ankle; if Ginny 
hadnʹt hesitated, she might have been able to scrape a win for Gryffindor. 
Umbridge had been sitting a few rows below Harry and Hermione. Once or 
twice she had turned squatly in her seat to look at him, her wide toadʹs mouth 
stretched in what he thought had been a gloating smile. The memory of it made 
him feel hot with anger as he lay there in the dark. After a few minutes, however, 
he remembered that he was supposed to be emptying his mind of all emotion 
before he slept, as Snape kept instructing him at the end of every Occlumency 
lesson. 
He tried for a moment or two, but the thought of Snape on top of memories of 
Umbridge merely increased his sense of grumbling resentment and he found 
himself focusing instead on how much he loathed the pair of them. Slowly, Ronʹs 
snores died away, to be replaced by the sound of deep, slow breathing. It took 
Harry much longer to get to sleep; his body was tired, but it took his brain a long 
time to close down. 
He dreamed that Neville and Professor Sprout were waltzing around the Room 
of Requirement while Professor McGonagall played the bagpipes. He watched 
them happily for a while, then decided to go and find the other members of the 
DA. 
But when he left the room he found himself facing, not the tapestry of Barnabas 
the Barmy, but a torch burning in its bracket on a stone wall. He turned his head 
slowly to the left. There, at the far end of the windowless passage, was a plain, 
black door. 

He walked towards it with a sense of mounting excitement. He had the strangest 
feeling that this time he was going to get lucky at last, and find the way to open 
it… he was feet from it, and saw with a leap of excitement that there was a 
glowing strip of faint blue light down the right‐hand side… the door was ajar… 
he stretched out his hand to push it wide and ‐ 
Ron gave a loud, rasping, genuine snore and Harry awoke abruptly with his 
right hand stretched in front of him in the darkness, to open a door that was 
hundreds of miles away. He let it fall with a feeling of mingled disappointment 
and guilt. He knew he should not have seen the door, but at the same time felt so 
consumed with curiosity about what was behind it that he could not help feeling 
annoyed with Ron… if only he could have saved his snore for just another 
minute. 
* 
They entered the Great Hall for breakfast at exactly the same moment as the post 
owls on Monday morning. Hermione was not the only person eagerly awaiting 
her Daily Prophet: nearly everyone was eager for more news about the escaped 
Death Eaters, who, despite many reported sightings, had still not been caught. 
She gave the delivery owl a Knut and unfolded the newspaper eagerly while 
Harry helped himself to orange juice; as he had only received one note during 
the entire year, he was sure, when the first owl landed with a thud in front of 
him, that it had made a mistake. 
ʹWhoʹre you after?ʹ he asked it, languidly removing his orange juice from 
underneath its beak and leaning forwards to see the recipientʹs name and 
address: 
Harry Potter Great Hall Hogwarts School
Frowning, he made to take the letter from the owl, but before he could do so, 
three, four, five more owls had fluttered down beside it and were jockeying for 
position, treading in the butter and knocking over the salt as each one attempted 
to give him their letter first. 
ʹWhatʹs going on?ʹ Ron asked in amazement, as the whole of Gryffindor table 
leaned forwards to watch and another seven owls landed amongst the first ones, 
screeching, hooting and flapping their wings. 

ʹHarry!ʹ said Hermione breathlessly, plunging her hands into the feathery mass 
and pulling out a screech owl bearing a long, cylindrical package. ʹI think I know 
what this means ‐ open this one first!ʹ 
Harry ripped off the brown packaging. Out rolled a tightly furled copy of the 
March edition of The Quibbler. He unrolled it to see his own face grinning 
sheepishly at him from the front cover. In large red letters across this picture 
were the words: 
SPEAKS OUT AT LAST:
THE TRUTH ABOUT HE WHO MUST NOT BE NAMED
AND THE NIGHT I SAW HIM RETURN
ʹItʹs good, isnʹt it?ʹ said Luna, who had drifted over to the Gryffindor table and 
now squeezed herself on to the bench between Fred and Ron. ʹIt came out 
yesterday, I asked Dad to send you a free copy. I expect all these,ʹ she waved a 
hand at the assembled owls still scrabbling around on the table in front of Harry, 
ʹare letters from readers.ʹ 
Thatʹs what I thought,ʹ said Hermione eagerly. ʹHarry, dʹyou mind if we ‐?ʹ 
ʹHelp yourself,ʹ said Harry, feeling slightly bemused. 
Ron and Hermione both started ripping open envelopes. 
This oneʹs from a bloke who thinks youʹre off your rocker,ʹ said Ron, glancing 
down his letter. ʹAh well…ʹ 
This woman recommends you try a good course of Shock Spells at St Mungoʹs,ʹ 
said Hermione, looking disappointed and crumpling up a second. 
This one looks OK, though,ʹ said Harry slowly, scanning a long letter from a 
witch in Paisley. ʹHey, she says she believes me!ʹ 
This oneʹs in two minds,ʹ said Fred, who had joined in the letter‐opening with 
enthusiasm. ʹSays you donʹt come across as a mad person, but he really doesnʹt 
want to believe You‐Know‐Whoʹs back so he doesnʹt know what to think now. 
Blimey, what a waste of parchment.ʹ 

ʹHereʹs another one youʹve convinced, Harry!ʹ said Hermione excitedly. ʹHaving 
read your side of the story, 1 am forced to the conclusion that the Daily Prophet has 
treated you very unfairly… little though I want to think that He Who Must Not Be 
Named has returned, I am forced to accept that you are telling the truth… Oh, this is 
wonderful!ʹ 
ʹAnother one who thinks youʹre barking,ʹ said Ron, throwing a crumpled letter 
over his shoulder ʹ… but this one says youʹve got her converted and she now 
thinks youʹre a real hero ‐ sheʹs put in a photograph, too ‐ wow!ʹ 
ʹWhat is going on here?ʹ said a falsely sweet, girlish voice. 
Harry looked up with his hands full of envelopes. Professor Umbridge was 
standing behind Fred and Luna, her bulging toadʹs eyes scanning the mess of 
owls and letters on the table in front of Harry. Behind her he saw many of the 
students watching them avidly. 
Why have you got all these letters, Mr Potter?ʹ she asked slowly. 
ʹIs that a crime now?ʹ said Fred loudly. ʹGetting mail?ʹ 
ʹBe careful, Mr Weasley, or I shall have to put you in detention,ʹ said Umbridge. 
ʹWell, Mr Potter?ʹ 
Harry hesitated, but he did not see how he could keep what he had done quiet; it 
was surely only a matter of time before a copy of The Quibbler came to 
Umbridges attention. 
ʹPeople have written to me because I gave an interview,ʹ said Harry. ʹAbout what 
happened to me last June.ʹ 
For some reason he glanced up at the staff table as he said this. Harry had the 
strangest teeling that Dumbledore had been watching him a second before, but 
when he looked towards the Headmaster he seemed to be absorbed in 
conversation with Professor Flitwick. 
ʹAn interview?ʹ repeated Umbridge, her voice thinner and higher than ever. 
ʹWhat do you mean?ʹ 
ʹI mean a reporter asked me questions and 1 answered them,ʹ said Harry. ʹHere ‐ʹ 

And he threw the copy of The Quibbler to her. She caught it and stared down at 
the cover. Her pale, doughy face turned an ugly, patchy violet. 
ʹWhen did you do this?ʹ she asked, her voice trembling slightly. 
ʹLast Hogsmeade weekend,ʹ said Harry. 
She looked up at him, incandescent with rage, the magazine shaking in her 
stubby fingers. 
There will be no more Hogsmeade trips for you, Mr Potter,ʹ she whispered. ʹHow 
you dare… how you could…ʹ She took a deep breath. ʹI have tried again and 
again to teach you not to tell lies. The message, apparently, has still not sunk in. 
Fifty points from Gryffindor and another weekʹs worth of detentions.ʹ 
She stalked away, clutching The Quibbler to her chest, the eyes of many students 
following her. 
By mid‐morning enormous signs had been put up all over the school, not just on 
house noticeboards, but in the corridors and classrooms too. 
BY ORDER OF THE HIGH INQUISITOR OF HOGWARTS 
Any student found in possession of the magazine The Quibbler will be expelled. 
The above is in accordance with Educational Decree Number Twenty‐seven.
Signed: Dolores Jane Umbridge, High Inquisitor
• 
For some reason, every time Hermione caught sight of one of these signs she 
beamed with pleasure. 
ʹWhat exactly are you so happy about?ʹ Harry asked her. 
ʹOh, Harry, donʹt you see?ʹ Hermione breathed. ʹIf she could have done one thing 
to make absolutely sure that every single person in this school will read your 
interview, it was banning it!ʹ 
And it seemed that Hermione was quite right. By the end of the day, though 
Harry had not seen so much as a corner of The Quibbler anywhere in the school, 

the whole place seemed to be quoting the interview to each other. Harry heard 
them whispering about it as they queued up outside classes, discussing it over 
lunch and in the back of lessons, while Hermione even reported that every 
occupant of the cubicles in the girlsʹ toilets had been talking about it when she 
nipped in there before Ancient Runes. 
Then they spotted me, and obviously they know I know you, so they bombarded 
me with questions,ʹ Hermione told Harry, her eyes shining, ʹand Harry, I think 
they believe you, I really do, I think youʹve finally got them convinced!ʹ 
Meanwhile, Professor Umbridge was stalking the school, stopping students at 
random and demanding that they turn out their books and pockets: Harry knew 
she was looking for copies of The Quibbler, but the students were several steps 
ahead of her. The pages carrying Harrys interview had been bewitched to 
resemble extracts from textbooks if anyone but themselves read it, or else wiped 
magically blank until they wanted to peruse it again. Soon it seemed that every 
single person in the school had read it. 
The teachers were of course forbidden from mentioning the interview by 
Educational Decree Number Twenty‐six, but they found ways to express their 
feelings about it all the same. Professor Sprout awarded Gryffindor twenty 
points when Harry passed her a watering can; a beaming Professor Flitwick 
pressed a box of squeaking sugar mice on him at the end of Charms, said, ʹShh!ʹ 
and hurried away; and Professor Trelawney broke into hysterical sobs during 
Divination and announced to the startled class, and a very disapproving 
Umbridge, that Harry was not going to suffer an early death after all, but would 
live to a ripe old age, become Minister for Magic and have twelve children. 
But what made Harry happiest was Cho catching up with him as he was 
hurrying along to Transfiguration the next day. Before he knew what had 
happened, her hand was in his and she was breathing in his ear, ʹIʹm really, really 
sorry. That interview was so brave… it made me cry.ʹ 
He was sorry to hear she had shed even more tears over it, but very glad they 
were on speaking terms again, and even more pleased when she gave him a 
swift kiss on the cheek and hurried off again. And unbelievably, no sooner had 
he arrived outside Transfiguration than something just as good happened: 
Seamus stepped out of the queue to face him. 

ʹI just wanted to say,ʹ he mumbled, squinting at Harryʹs left knee, ʹ1 believe you. 
And Iʹve sent a copy of that magazine to me mam.ʹ 
If anything more was needed to complete Harryʹs happiness, it was the reaction 
he got from Malfoy, Crabbe and Goyle. He saw them with their heads together 
later that afternoon in the library; they were with a weedy‐looking boy Hermione 
whispered was called Theodore Nott. They looked round at Harry as he browsed 
the shelves for the book he needed on Partial Vanishment: Goyle cracked his 
knuckles threateningly and Malfoy whispered something undoubtedly 
malevolent to Crabbe. Harry knew perfectly well why they were acting like this: 
he had named all of their fathers as Death Eaters. 
ʹAnd the best bit,ʹ whispered Hermione gleefully, as they left the library, ʹis they 
canʹt contradict you, because they canʹt admit theyʹve read the article!ʹ 
To cap it all, Luna told him over dinner that no issue of The Quibbler had ever 
sold out faster. 
ʹDadʹs reprinting!ʹ she told Harry, her eyes popping excitedly. ʹHe canʹt believe it, 
he says people seem even more interested in this than the Crumple‐Horned 
Snorkacks!ʹ 
Harry was a hero in the Gryffindor common room that night. Daringly, Fred and 
George had put an Enlargement Charm on the front cover of The Quibbler and 
hung it on the wall, so that Harryʹs giant head gazed down upon the 
proceedings, occasionally saying things like THE MINISTRY ARE MORONSʹ 
and ʹEAT DUNG, UMBRIDGEʹ in a booming voice. Hermione did not find this 
very amusing; she said it interfered with her concentration, and she ended up 
going to bed early out of irritation. Harry had to admit that the poster was not 
quite as funny after an hour or two, especially when the talking spell had started 
to wear off, so that it merely shouted disconnected words like ʹDUNGʹ and 
ʹUMBRIDGEʹ at more and more frequent intervals in a progressively higher 
voice. In fact, it started to make his head ache and his scar began prickling 
uncomfortably again. To disappointed moans from the many people who were 
sitting around him, asking him to relive his interview for the umpteenth time, he 
announced that he too needed an early night. 
The dormitory was empty when he reached it. He rested his forehead for a 
moment against the cool glass of the window beside his bed; it felt soothing 
against his scar. Then he undressed and got into bed, wishing his headache 

would go away. He also felt slightly sick. He rolled over on to his side, closed his 
eyes, and fell asleep almost at once… 
He was standing in a dark, curtained room lit by a single branch of candles. His 
hands were clenched on the back of a chair in front of him. They were long‐
fingered and white as though they had not seen sunlight for years and looked 
like large, pale spiders against the dark velvet of the chair. 
Beyond the chair, in a pool of light cast upon the floor by the candles, knelt a 
man in black robes. 
ʹI have been badly advised, it seems,ʹ said Harry, in a high, cold voice that pulsed 
with anger. 
ʹMaster, I crave your pardon,ʹ croaked the man kneeling on the floor. The back of 
his head glimmered in the candlelight. He seemed to be trembling. 
ʹI do not blame you, Rookwood,ʹ said Harry in that cold, cruel voice. 
He relinquished his grip on the chair and walked around it, closer to the man 
cowering on the floor, until he stood directly over him in the darkness, looking 
down from a far greater height than usual. 
ʹYou are sure of your facts, Rookwood?ʹ asked Harry. 
ʹYes, My Lord, yes… I used to work in the Department after ‐after all…ʹ 
ʹAvery told me Bode would be able to remove it.ʹ 
ʹBode could never have taken it, Master… Bode would have known he could 
not… undoubtedly, that is why he fought so hard against Malfoyʹs Imperius 
Curse…ʹ 
ʹStand up, Rookwood,ʹ whispered Harry. 
The kneeling man almost fell over in his haste to obey. His face was pockmarked; 
the scars were thrown into relief by the candlelight. He remained a little stooped 
when standing, as though halfway through a bow, and he darted terrified looks 
up at Harryʹs face. 

ʹYou have done well to tell me this,ʹ said Harry. ʹVery well… I have wasted 
months on fruitless schemes, it seems… but no matter… we begin again, from 
now. You have Lord Voldemortʹs gratitude, Rookwood…ʹ 
ʹMy Lord… yes, My Lord,ʹ gasped Rookwood, his voice hoarse with relief. 
ʹI shall need your help. I shall need all the information you can give me.ʹ 
ʹOf course, My Lord, of course… anything…ʹ 
ʹVery well… you may go. Send Avery to me.ʹ 
Rookwood scurried backwards, bowing, and disappeared through a door. 
Left alone in the dark room, Harry turned towards the wall. A cracked, age‐
spotted mirror hung on the wall in the shadows. Harry moved towards it. His 
reflection grew larger and clearer in the darkness… a face whiter than a skull… 
red eyes with slits for pupils… 
ʹNOOOOOOOOO!ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ yelled a voice nearby. 
Harry flailed around madly, became entangled in the hangings and fell out of his 
bed. For a few seconds he did not know where he was; he was convinced he was 
about to see the white, skull‐like face looming at him out ol the dark again, then 
very near to him Ronʹs voice spoke. . ʹWill you stop acting like a maniac so I can 
get you out of here!ʹ 
Ron wrenched the hangings apart and Harry stared up at him in the moonlight, 
flat on his back, his scar searing with pain. Ron looked as though he had just 
been getting ready for bed; one arm was out of his robes. 
ʹHas someone been attacked again?ʹ asked Ron, pulling Harry roughly to his feet. 
ʹIs it Dad? Is it that snake?ʹ 
ʹNo ‐ everyoneʹs fine ‐ʹ gasped Harry, whose forehead felt as though it were on 
fire. ʹWell… Avery isnʹt… heʹs in trouble… he gave him the wrong information… 
Voldemortʹs really angry 
Harry groaned and sank, shaking, on to his bed, rubbing his scar. 

ʹBut Rookwoodʹs going to help him now… heʹs on the right track again…ʺ 
ʹWhat are you talking about?ʹ said Ron, sounding scared. ʹDʹyou mean… did you 
just see You‐Know‐Who?ʹ 
ʹI was You‐Know‐Who,ʹ said Harry, and he stretched out his hands in the 
darkness and held them up to his face, to check that they were no longer deathly 
white and long‐fingered. ʹHe was with Rookwood, heʹs one of the Death Eaters 
who escaped from Azkaban, remember? Rookwoodʹs just told him Bode couldnʹt 
have done it.ʹ 
ʹDone what?ʹ 
ʹRemove something… he said Bode would have known he couldnʹt have done 
it… Bode was under the Imperius Curse… I think he said Malfoyʹs dad put it on 
him.ʹ 
ʹBode was bewitched to remove something?ʹ Ron said. ʹBut ‐Harry, thatʹs got to 
be ‐ʹ 
The weapon,ʹ Harry finished the sentence for him. ʹI knowʹ 
The dormitory door opened; Dean and Seamus came in. Harry swung his legs 
back into bed. He did not want to look as though anything odd had just 
happened, seeing as Seamus had only just stopped thinking Harry was a nutter. 
ʹDid you say,ʹ murmured Ron, putting his head close to Harryʹs on the pretence 
of helping himself to water from the jug on his bedside table, ʹthat you were You‐
Know‐Who?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry quietly. 
Ron took an unnecessarily large gulp of water; Harry saw it spill over his chin on 
to his chest. 
ʹHarry,ʹ he said, as Dean and Seamus clattered around noisily, pulling off their 
robes and talking, ʹyouʹve got to tell ‐ʹ 
ʹI havenʹt got to tell anyone,ʹ said Harry shortly. ʹ1 wouldnʹt have seen it at all if I 
could do Occlumency. Iʹm supposed to have learned to shut this stuff out. Thatʹs 
what they want.ʹ 

By ʹtheyʹ he meant Dumbledore. He got back into bed and rolled over on to his 
side with his back to Ron and after a while he heard Ronʹs mattress creak as he, 
too, lay back down. Harryʹs scar began to burn; he bit hard on his pillow to stop 
himself making a noise. Somewhere, he knew, Avery was being punished. 
* 
Harry and Ron waited until break next morning to tell Hermione exactly what 
had happened; they wanted to be absolutely sure they could not be overheard. 
Standing in their usual corner of the cool and breezy courtyard, Harry told her 
every detail of the dream he could remember. When he had finished, she said 
nothing at all for a few moments, but stared with a kind of painful intensity at 
Fred and George, who were both headless and selling their magical hats from 
under their cloaks on the other side of the yard. 
ʹSo thatʹs why they killed him,ʹ she said quietly, withdrawing her gaze from Fred 
and George at last. ʹWhen Bode tried to steal this weapon, something funny 
happened to him. 1 think there must be defensive spells on it, or around it, to 
stop people touching it. Thatʹs why he was in St Mungoʹs, his brain had gone all 
funny and he couldnʹt talk. But remember what the Healer told us? He was 
recovering. And they couldnʹt risk him getting better, could they? I mean, the 
shock of whatever happened when he touched that weapon probably made the 
Imperius Curse lift. Once heʹd got his voice back, heʹd explain what heʹd been 
doing, wouldnʹt he? They would have known heʹd been sent to steal the weapon. 
Of course, it would have been easy for Lucius Malfoy to put the curse on him. 
Never out of the Ministry, is he?ʹ 
ʹHe was even hanging around that day I had my hearing,ʹ said Harry. ʹIn the ‐ 
hang on…ʹ he said slowly. ʹHe was in the Department of Mysteries corridor that 
day! Your dad said he was probably trying to sneak down and find out what 
happened in my hearing, but what if ‐ʹ 
ʹSturgis!ʹ gasped Hermione, looking thunderstruck. 
ʹSorry?ʹ said Ron, looking bewildered. 
ʹSturgis Podmore ‐ʹ said Hermione breathlessly, ʹarrested for trying to get 
through a door! Lucius Malfoy must have got him too! I bet he did it the day you 
saw him there, Harry. Sturgis had Moodyʹs Invisibility Cloak, right? So, what if 
he was standing guard by the door, invisible, and Malfoy heard him move ‐ or 

guessed someone was there ‐ or just did the Imperius Curse on the off‐chance 
thereʹd be a guard there? So, when Sturgis next had an opportunity ‐ probably 
when it was his turn on guard duty again ‐ he tried to get into the Department to 
steal the weapon for Voldemort ‐ Ron, be quiet ‐ but he got caught and sent to 
Azkaban…ʺ 
She gazed at Harry. 
ʹAnd now Rookwoodʹs told Voldemort how to get the weapon?ʹ 
ʹI didnʹt hear all the conversation, but thatʹs what it sounded like,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹRookwood used to work there… maybe Voldemortʹll send Rookwood to do it?ʹ 
Hermione nodded, apparently still lost in thought. Then, quite abruptly, she 
said, ʹBut you shouldnʹt have seen this at all, Harry.ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ he said, taken aback. 
ʹYouʹre supposed to be learning how to close your mind to this sort of thing,ʹ said 
Hermione, suddenly stern. 
ʹI know I am,ʹ said Harry. ʹBut ‐ʹ 
ʹWell, I think we should just try and forget what you saw,ʹ said Hermione firmly. 
ʹAnd you ought to put in a bit more effort on your Occlumency from now on.ʹ 
Harry was so angry with her he did not talk to her for the rest of the day, which 
proved to be another bad one. When people were not discussing the escaped 
Death Eaters in the corridors, they were laughing at Gryffindorʹs abysmal 
performance in their match against Hufflepuff; the Slytherins were singing 
Weasley is our Kingʹ so loudly and frequently that by sundown Filch had banned 
it from the corridors out of sheer irritation. 
The week did not improve as it progressed. Harry received two more ʹDʹs in 
Potions; he was still on tenterhooks that Hagrid might get the sack; and he 
couldnʹt stop himself dwelling on the dream in which he had been Voldemort ‐ 
though he didnʹt bring it up with Ron and Hermione again; he didnʹt want 
another telling‐off from Hermione. He wished very much that he could have 
talked to Sirius about it, but that was out of the question, so he tried to push the 
matter to the back of his mind. 

Unfortunately, the back of his mind was no longer the secure place it had once 
been. 
ʹGet up, Potter.ʹ 
A couple of weeks after his dream of Rookwood, Harry was to be found, yet 
again, kneeling on the floor of Snapeʹs office, trying to clear his head. He had just 
been forced, yet again, to relive a stream of very early memories he had not even 
realised he still had, most of them concerning humiliations Dudley and his gang 
had inflicted upon him in primary school. 
That last memory,ʹ said Snape. ʹWhat was it?ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know,ʹ said Harry, getting wearily to his feet. He was finding it 
increasingly difficult to disentangle separate memories from the rush of images 
and sound that Snape kept calling forth. ʹYou mean the one where my cousin 
tried to make me stand in the toilet?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Snape softly. ʹI mean the one with a man kneeling in the middle of a 
darkened room…ʹ 
ʹItʹs… nothing,ʹ said Harry. 
Snapeʹs dark eyes bored into Harryʹs. Remembering what Snape had said about 
eye contact being crucial to Legilimency, Harry blinked and looked away. 
ʹHow do that man and that room come to be inside your head, Potter?ʹ said 
Snape. 
ʹIt ‐ʹ said Harry, looking everywhere but at Snape, ʹit was ‐just a dream I had.ʹ 
ʹA dream?ʹ repeated Snape. 
There was a pause during which Harry stared fixedly at a large dead frog 
suspended in a jar of purple liquid. 
ʹYou do know why we are here, donʹt you, Potter?ʹ said Snape, in a low, 
dangerous voice. ʹYou do know why I am giving up my evenings to this tedious 
job?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry stiffly. 

ʹRemind me why we are here, Potter.ʹ 
ʹSo I can learn Occlumency,ʹ said Harry, now glaring at a dead eel. 
ʹCorrect, Potter. And dim though you may be ‐ʹ Harry looked back at Snape, 
hating him ʹ‐ I would have thought that after over two months of lessons you 
might have made some progress. How many other dreams about the Dark Lord 
have you had?ʹ 
ʹJust that one,ʹ lied Harry. 
ʹPerhaps,ʹ said Snape, his dark, cold eyes narrowing slightly, ʹperhaps you 
actually enjoy having these visions and dreams, Potter. Maybe they make you 
feel special ‐ important?ʹ 
ʹNo, they donʹt,ʹ said Harry, his jaw set and his fingers clenched tightly around 
the handle of his wand. 
That is just as well, Potter,ʹ said Snape coldly, ʹbecause you are neither special nor 
important, and it is not up to you to find out what the Dark Lord is saying to his 
Death Eaters.ʹ 
ʹNo ‐ thatʹs your job, isnʹt it?ʹ Harry shot at him. 
He had not meant to say it; it had burst out of him in temper. For a long moment 
they stared at each other, Harry convinced he had gone too far. But there was a 
curious, almost satisfied expression on Snapeʹs face when he answered. 
ʹYes, Potter,ʹ he said, his eyes glinting. That is my job. Now, if you are ready, we 
will start again.ʹ 
He raised his wand: ʹOne — two ‐ three ‐ Legilimenslʹ
A hundred Dementors were swooping towards Harry across the lake in the 
grounds… he screwed up his face in concentration… they were coming closer… 
he could see the dark holes beneath their hoods… yet he could also see Snape 
standing in front of him, his eyes fixed on Harryʹs face, muttering under his 
breath… and somehow, Snape was growing clearer, and the Dementors were 
growing fainter… 
Harry raised his own wand. 

ʹProtego!ʹ
Snape staggered ‐ his wand flew upwards, away from Harry ‐and suddenly 
Harryʹs mind was teeming with memories that were not his: a hook‐nosed man 
was shouting at a cowering woman, while a small dark‐haired boy cried in a 
corner… a greasy‐haired teenager sat alone in a dark bedroom, pointing his 
wand at the ceiling, shooting down flies… a girl was laughing as a scrawny boy 
tried to mount a bucking broomstick ‐ 
ʹENOUGH!ʹ 
Harry felt as though he had been pushed hard in the chest; he staggered several 
steps backwards, hit some of the shelves covering Snapeʹs walls and heard 
something crack. Snape was shaking slightly, and was very white in the face. 
The back of Harryʹs robes was damp. One of the jars behind him had broken 
when he fell against it; the pickled slimy thing within was swirling in its draining 
potion. 
ʹReparo,ʹ hissed Snape, and the jar sealed itself at once. ʹWell, Potter… that was 
certainly an improvement…ʹ Panting slightly, Snape straightened the Pensieve in 
which he had again stored some of his thoughts before starting the lesson, almost 
as though he was checking they were still there. ʹI donʹt remember telling you to 
use a Shield Charm… but there is no doubt that it was effective…ʹ 
Harry did not speak; he felt that to say anything might be dangerous. He was 
sure he had just broken into Snapeʹs memories, that he had just seen scenes from 
Snapeʹs childhood. It was unnerving to think that the little boy who had been 
crying as he watched his parents shouting was actually standing in front of him 
with such loathing in his eyes. 
ʹLetʹs try again, shall we?ʹ said Snape. 
Harry felt a thrill of dread; he was about to pay for what had just happened, he 
was sure of it. They moved back into position with the desk between them, 
Harry feeling he was going to find it much harder to empty his mind this time. 
ʹOn the count of three, then,ʹ said Snape, raising his wand once more. ʹOne ‐ two ‐
ʹ 

Harry did not have time to gather himself together and attempt to clear his mind 
before Snape cried, ʹLegilimens!ʹ 
He was hurtling along the corridor towards the Department of Mysteries, past 
the blank stone walls, past the torches ‐ the plain black door was growing ever 
larger; he was moving so fast he was going to collide with it, he was feet from it 
and again he could see that chink of faint blue light ‐ 
The door had flown open! He was through it at last, inside a black‐walled, black‐
floored circular room lit with blue‐flamed candles, and there were more doors all 
around him ‐ he needed to go on ‐ but which door ought he to take ‐? 
TOTTER!ʹ 
Harry opened his eyes. He was flat on his back again with no memory of having 
got there; he was also panting as though he really had run the length of the 
Department of Mysteries corridor, really had sprinted through the black door 
and found the circular room. 
ʹExplain yourself!ʹ said Snape, who was standing over him, looking furious. 
ʹI… dunno what happened,ʹ said Harry truthfully, standing up. There was a 
lump on the back of his head from where he had hit the ground and he felt 
feverish. ʹIʹve never seen that before. I mean, I told you, Iʹve dreamed about the 
door… but itʹs never opened before 
ʹYou are not working hard enough!ʹ 
For some reason, Snape seemed even angrier than he had done two minutes 
before, when Harry had seen into his teacherʹs memories. 
ʹYou are lazy and sloppy, Potter, it is small wonder that the Dark Lord ‐ʹ 
ʹCan you tell me something, sir?ʹ said Harry, firing up again. ʹWhy do you call 
Voldemort the Dark Lord? Iʹve only ever heard Death Eaters call him that.ʹ 
Snape opened his mouth in a snarl ‐ and a woman screamed from somewhere 
outside the room. 
Snapes head jerked upwards; he was gazing at the ceiling. 

ʹWhat the ‐?ʹ he muttered. 
Harry could hear a muffled commotion coming from what he thought might be 
the Entrance Hall. Snape looked round at him, frowning. 
ʹDid you see anything unusual on your way down here, Potter?ʹ 
Harry shook his head. Somewhere above them, the woman screamed again. 
Snape strode to his office door, his wand still held at the ready, and swept out of 
sight. Harry hesitated for a moment, then followed. 
The screams were indeed coming from the Entrance Hall; they grew louder as 
Harry ran towards the stone steps leading up from the dungeons. When he 
reached the top he found the Entrance Hall packed; students had come flooding 
out of the Great Hall, where dinner was still in progress, to see what was going 
on; others had crammed themselves on to the marble staircase. Harry pushed 
forwards through a knot of tall Slytherins and saw that the onlookers had 
formed a great ring, some of them looking shocked, others even frightened. 
Professor McGonagall was directly opposite Harry on the other side of the Hall; 
she looked as though what she was watching made her feel faintly sick. 
Professor Trelawney was standing in the middle of the Entrance Hall with her 
wand in one hand and an empty sherry bottle in the other, looking utterly mad. 
Her hair was sticking up on end, her glasses were lopsided so that one eye was 
magnified more than the other; her innumerable shawls and scarves were 
trailing haphazardly from her shoulders, giving the impression that she was 
falling apart at the seams. Two large trunks lay on the floor beside her, one of 
them upside‐down; it looked very much as though it had been thrown down the 
stairs after her. Professor Trelawney was staring, apparently terrified, at 
something Harry could not see but which seemed to be standing at the foot of 
the stairs. 
ʹNo!ʹ she shrieked. ʹNO! This cannot be happening… it cannot… I refuse to accept 
it!ʹ 
ʹYou didnʹt realise this was coming?ʹ said a high girlish voice, sounding callously 
amused, and Harry, moving slightly to his right, saw that Trelawneyʹs terrifying 
vision was nothing other than Professor Umbridge. ʹIncapable though you are of 
predicting even tomorrowʹs weather, you must surely have realised that your 

pitiful performance during my inspections, and lack of any improvement, would 
make it inevitable that you would be sacked?ʹ 
ʹYou c ‐ canʹt!ʹ howled Professor Trelawney, tears streaming down her face from 
behind her enormous lenses, ʹyou c ‐ canʹt sack me! Iʹve b ‐ been here sixteen 
years! H ‐ Hogwarts is in ‐ my h ‐ home!ʹ 
ʹIt was your home,ʹ said Professor Umbridge, and Harry was revolted to see the 
enjoyment stretching her toadlike face as she watched Professor Trelawney sink, 
sobbing uncontrollably, on to one of her trunks, ʹuntil an hour ago, when the 
Minister for Magic countersigned your Order of Dismissal. Now kindly remove 
yourself from this Hall. You are embarrassing us.ʹ 
But she stood and watched, with an expression of gloating enjoyment, as 
Professor Trelawney shuddered and moaned, rocking backwards and forwards 
on her trunk in paroxysms of grief. Harry heard a muffled sob to his left and 
looked around. Lavender and Parvati were both crying quietly, their arms round 
each other. Then he heard footsteps. Professor McGonagall had broken away 
from the spectators, marched straight up to Professor Trelawney and was patting 
her firmly on the back while withdrawing a large handkerchief from within her 
robes. 
There, there, Sybill… calm down… blow your nose on this… itʹs not as bad as 
you think, now… you are not going to have to leave Hogwarts…ʺ 
ʹOh really, Professor McGonagall?ʹ said Umbridge in a deadly voice, taking a few 
steps forward. ʹAnd your authority for that statement is… ?ʹ 
That would be mine,ʹ said a deep voice. 
The oaken front doors had swung open. Students beside them scuttled out of the 
way as Dumbledore appeared in the entrance. What he had been doing out in the 
grounds Harry could not imagine, but there was something impressive about the 
sight of him framed in the doorway against an oddly misty night. Leaving the 
doors wide open behind him he strode forwards through the circle of onlookers 
towards Professor Trelawney, tear‐stained and trembling, on her trunk, Professor 
McGonagall alongside her. 
ʹYours, Professor Dumbledore?ʹ said Umbridge, with a singularly unpleasant 
little laugh. ʹIʹm afraid you do not understand the position. I have here ‐ʹ she 
pulled a parchment scroll from within her robesʹ‐ an Order of Dismissal signed 

by myself and the Minister for Magic. Under the terms of Educational Decree 
Number Twenty‐three, the High Inquisitor of Hogwarts has the power to 
inspect, place upon probation and sack any teacher she ‐ that is to say, I ‐ feel is 
not performing to the standards required by the Ministry of Magic. I have 
decided that Professor Trelawney is not up to scratch. I have dismissed her.ʹ 
To Harryʹs very great surprise, Dumbledore continued to smile. He looked down 
at Professor Trelawney, who was still sobbing and choking on her trunk, and 
said, ʹYou are quite right, of course, Professor Umbridge. As High Inquisitor you 
have every right to dismiss my teachers. You do not, however, have the authority 
to send them away from the castle. I am afraid,ʹ he went on, with a courteous 
little bow, that the power to do that still resides with the Headmaster, and it is 
my wish that Professor Trelawney continue to live at Hogwarts.ʹ 
At this, Professor Trelawney gave a wild little laugh in which a hiccough was 
barely hidden. 
ʹNo ‐ no, Iʹll g ‐ go, Dumbledore! I sh ‐ shall ‐ leave Hogwarts andʹs ‐ seek my 
fortune elsewhere ‐ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Dumbledore sharply. ʹIt is my wish that you remain, Sybill.ʹ 
He turned to Professor McGonagall. 
ʹMight I ask you to escort Sybill back upstairs, Professor McGonagall?ʹ 
ʹOf course,ʹ said McGonagall. ʹUp you get, Sybill…ʹ 
Professor Sprout came hurrying forwards out of the crowd and grabbed 
Professor Trelawneyʹs other arm. Together, they guided her past Umbridge and 
up the marble stairs. Professor Flitwick went scurrying after them, his wand held 
out before him; he squeaked ʹLocomotor trunks!ʹ and Professor Trelawneyʹs 
luggage rose into the air and proceeded up the staircase after her, Professor 
Flitwick bringing up the rear. 
Professor Umbridge was standing stock still, staring at Dumbledore, who 
continued to smile benignly. 
ʹAnd what,ʹ she said, in a whisper that carried all around the Entrance Hall, ʹare 
you going to do with her once I appoint a new Divination teacher who needs her 
lodgings?ʹ 

ʹOh, that wonʹt be a problem,ʹ said Dumbledore pleasantly. ʹYou see, I have 
already found us a new Divination teacher, and he will prefer lodgings on the 
ground floor.ʹ 
ʹYouʹve found ‐?ʹ said Umbridge shrilly. ʹYouʹve found? Might I remind you, 
Dumbledore, that under Educational Decree Number Twenty‐two ‐ʹ 
The Ministry has the right to appoint a suitable candidate if ‐and only if‐ the 
Headmaster is unable to find one,ʹ said Dumbledore. ʹAnd I am happy to say that 
on this occasion I have succeeded. May I introduce you?ʹ 
He turned to face the open front doors, through which night mist was now 
drifting. Harry heard hooves. There was a shocked murmur around the Hall and 
those nearest the doors hastily moved even further backwards, some of them 
tripping over in their haste to clear a path for the newcomer. 
Through the mist came a face Harry had seen once before on a dark, dangerous 
night in the Forbidden Forest: white‐blond hair and astonishingly blue eyes; the 
head and torso of a man joined to the palomino body of a horse. 
This is Firenze,ʹ said Dumbledore happily to a thunderstruck Umbridge. ʹI think 
youʹll find him suitable.ʹ 
— CHAPTER TWENTY‐SEVEN — 
The Centaur and the Sneak
Til bet you wish you hadnʹt given up Divination now, donʹt you, Hermione?ʹ 
asked Parvati, smirking. 
It was breakfast time, two days after the sacking of Professor Trelawney, and 
Parvati was curling her eyelashes around her wand and examining the effect in 
the back of her spoon. They were to have their first lesson with Firenze that 
morning. 
ʹNot reallyʹ said Hermione indifferently, who was reading the Daily Prophet. ʹIʹve 
never really liked horses.ʹ 
She turned a page of the newspaper and scanned its columns. 
ʹHeʹs not a horse, heʹs a centaur!ʹ said Lavender, sounding shocked. 

ʹA gorgeous centaur…ʹ sighed Parvati. 
ʹEither way, heʹs still got four legs,ʹ said Hermione coolly. ʹAnyway I thought you 
two were all upset that Trelawney had gone?ʹ 
ʹWe are!ʹ Lavender assured her. ʹWe went up to her office to see her; we took her 
some daffodils ‐ not the honking ones that Sproutʹs got, nice ones.ʹ 
ʹHow is she?ʹ asked Harry. 
ʹNot very good, poor thing,ʹ said Lavender sympathetically. ʹShe was crying and 
saying sheʹd rather leave the castle for ever than stay here where Umbridge is, 
and I donʹt blame her, Umbridge was horrible to her, wasnʹt she?ʹ 
ʹIʹve got a feeling Umbridge has only just started being horrible,ʹ said Hermione 
darkly. 
ʹImpossible,ʹ said Ron, who was tucking into a large plate of eggs and bacon. ʹShe 
canʹt get any worse than sheʹs been already.ʹ 
ʹYou mark my words, sheʹs going to want revenge on Dumbledore for 
appointing a new teacher without consulting her,ʹ said Hermione, closing the 
newspaper. ʹEspecially another part‐human. You saw the look on her face when 
she saw Firenze.ʹ 
After breakfast Hermione departed for her Arithmancy class as Harry and Ron 
followed Parvati and Lavender into the Entrance Hall, heading for Divination. 
Arenʹt we going up to North Tower?ʹ asked Ron, looking puzzled, as Parvati 
bypassed the marble staircase. 
Parvati looked at him scornfully over her shoulder. 
ʹHow dʹyou expect Firenze to climb that ladder? Weʹre in classroom eleven now, 
it was on the noticeboard yesterday.ʹ 
Classroom eleven was on the ground floor along the corridor leading off the 
Entrance Hall from the opposite side to the Great Hall. Harry knew it was one of 
those classrooms that were never used regularly, and therefore had the slightly 
neglected feeling of a cupboard or storeroom. When he entered it right behind 

Ron, and found himself in the middle of a forest clearing, he was therefore 
momentarily stunned. 
ʹWhat the ‐?ʹ 
The classroom floor had become springily mossy and trees were growing out of 
it; their leafy branches fanned across the ceiling and windows, so that the room 
was full of slanting shafts of soft, dappled, green light. The students who had 
already arrived were sitting on the earthy floor with their backs resting against 
tree trunks or boulders, arms wrapped around their knees or folded tightly 
across their chests, and all looking rather nervous. In the middle of the clearing, 
where there were no trees, stood Firenze. 
ʹHarry Potter,ʹ he said, holding out a hand when Harry entered. 
ʹEr ‐ hi,ʹ said Harry, shaking hands with the centaur, who surveyed him 
unblinkingly through those astonishingly blue eyes but did not smile. ʹEr ‐ good 
to see you.ʹ 
ʹAnd you,ʹ said the centaur, inclining his white‐blond head. ʹIt was foretold that 
we would meet again.ʹ 
Harry noticed there was the shadow of a hoof‐shaped bruise on Firenzeʹs chest. 
As he turned to join the rest of the class on the ground, he saw they were all 
looking at him in awe, apparently deeply impressed that he was on speaking 
terms with Firenze, whom they seemed to find intimidating. 
When the door was closed and the last student had sat down on a tree stump 
beside the wastepaper basket, Firenze gestured around the room. 
ʹProfessor Dumbledore has kindly arranged this classroom for us,ʹ said Firenze, 
when everyone had settled down, ʹin imitation of my natural habitat. I would 
have preferred to teach you in the Forbidden Forest, which was ‐ until Monday ‐ 
my home… but that is no longer possible.ʹ 
ʹPlease ‐ er ‐ sir ‐ʹ said Parvati breathlessly, raising her hand, ʹ‐ why not? Weʹve 
been in there with Hagrid, weʹre not frightened!ʹ 
ʹIt is not a question of your bravery,ʹ said Firenze, ʹbut of my position. I cannot 
return to the Forest. My herd has banished me.ʹ 

ʹHerd?ʹ said Lavender in a confused voice, and Harry knew she was thinking of 
cows. ʹWhat ‐ oh!ʹ 
Comprehension dawned on her face. ʹThere are more of youT she said, stunned. 
ʹDid Hagrid breed you, like the Thestrals?ʹ asked Dean eagerly. 
Firenze turned his head very slowly to face Dean, who seemed to realise at once 
that he had said something very offensive. 
ʹI didnʹt ‐ I meant ‐ sorryʹ he finished in a hushed voice. 
ʹCentaurs are not the servants or playthings of humans,ʹ said Firenze quietly. 
There was a pause, then Parvati raised her hand again. 
ʹPlease, sir… why have the other centaurs banished you?ʹ 
ʹBecause I have agreed to work for Professor Dumbledore,ʹ said Firenze. ʹThey 
see this as a betrayal of our kind.ʹ 
Harry remembered how, nearly four years ago, the centaur Bane had shouted at 
Firenze for allowing Harry to ride to safety on his back; he had called him a 
ʹcommon muleʹ. He wondered whether it had been Bane who had kicked Firenze 
in the chest. 
ʹLet us begin,ʹ said Firenze. He swished his long palomino tail, raised his hand 
towards the leafy canopy overhead, then lowered it slowly, and as he did so, the 
light in the room dimmed, so that they now seemed to be sitting in a forest 
clearing by twilight, and stars appeared on the ceiling. There were oofis and 
gasps and Ron said audibly, ʹBlimey!ʹ 
ʹLie back on the floor,ʹ said Firenze in his calm voice, ʹand observe the heavens. 
Here is written, for those who can see, the fortune of our races.ʹ 
Harry stretched out on his back and gazed upwards at the ceiling. A twinkling 
red star winked at him from overhead. 
ʹI know that you have learned the names of the planets and their moons in 
Astronomy,ʹ said Firenzeʹs calm voice, ʹand that you have mapped the starsʹ 
progress through the heavens. Centaurs have unravelled the mysteries of these 

movements over centuries. Our findings teach us that the future may be 
glimpsed in the sky above us ‐ʹ 
ʹProfessor Trelawney did astrology with us!ʹ said Parvati excitedly, raising her 
hand in front of her so that it stuck up in the air as she lay on her back. ʹMars 
causes accidents and burns and things like that, and when it makes an angle to 
Saturn, like now ‐ʹ she drew a right‐angle in the air above her ʹ‐ that means 
people need to be extra careful when handling hot things ‐ʹ 
That,ʹ said Firenze calmly, ʹis human nonsense.ʹ 
Parvatiʹs hand fell limply to her side. 
Trivial hurts, tiny human accidents,ʹ said Firenze, as his hooves thudded over the 
mossy floor. These are of no more significance than the scurryings of ants to the 
wide universe, and are unaffected by planetary movements.ʹ 
ʹProfessor Trelawney ‐ʹ began Parvati, in a hurt and indignant voice. 
ʹ‐ is a human,ʹ said Firenze simply. ʹAnd is therefore blinkered and fettered by 
the limitations of your kind.ʹ 
Harry turned his head very slightly to look at Parvati. She looked very offended, 
as did several of the people surrounding her. 
ʹSybill Trelawney may have Seen, I do not know,ʹ continued Firenze, and Harry 
heard the swishing of his tail again as he walked up and down before them, ʹbut 
she wastes her time, in the main, on the self‐flattering nonsense humans call 
fortune‐telling. I, however, am here to explain the wisdom of centaurs, which is 
impersonal and impartial. We watch the skies for the great tides of evil or change 
that are sometimes marked there. It may take ten years to be sure of what we are 
seeing.ʹ 
Firenze pointed to the red star directly above Harry. 
ʹIn the past decade, the indications have been that wizardkind is living through 
nothing more than a brief calm between two wars. Mars, bringer of battle, shines 
brightly above us, suggesting that the fight must soon break out again. How 
soon, centaurs may attempt to divine by the burning of certain herbs and leaves, 
by the observation of fume and flame…ʹ 

It was the most unusual lesson Harry had ever attended. They did indeed burn 
sage and mallowsweet there on the classroom floor, and Firenze told them to 
look for certain shapes and symbols in the pungent fumes, but he seemed 
perfectly unconcerned that not one of them could see any of the signs he 
described, telling them that humans were hardly ever good at this, that it took 
centaurs years and years to become competent, and finished by telling them that 
it was foolish to put too much faith in such things, anyway, because even 
centaurs sometimes read them wrongly. He was nothing like any human teacher 
Harry had ever had. His priority did not seem to be to teach them what he knew, 
but rather to impress upon them that nothing, not even centaursʹ knowledge, 
was foolproof. 
ʹHeʹs not very definite on anything, is he?ʹ said Ron in a low voice, as they put 
out their mallowsweet fire. ʹI mean, I could do with a few more details about this 
war weʹre about to have, couldnʹt you?ʹ 
The bell rang right outside the classroom door and everyone jumped; Harry had 
completely forgotten they were still inside the castle, and quite convinced that he 
was really in the Forest. The class filed out, looking slightly perplexed. 
Harry and Ron were on the point of following them when Firenze called, ʹHarry 
Potter, a word, please.ʹ 
Harry turned. The centaur advanced a little towards him. Ron hesitated. 
ʹYou may stay,ʹ Firenze told him. ʹBut close the door, please.ʹ • Ron hastened to 
obey. 
ʹHarry Potter, you are a friend of Hagridʹs, are you not?ʹ said the •centaur. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry. 
Then give him a warning from me. His attempt is not working. He would do 
better to abandon it.ʹ 
ʹHis attempt is not working?ʹ Harry repeated blankly. 
ʹAnd he would do better to abandon it,ʹ said Firenze, nodding. ʹI would warn 
Hagrid myself, but I am banished ‐ it would be unwise for me to go too near the 
Forest now ‐ Hagrid has troubles enough, without a centaursʹ battle.ʹ 

ʹBut ‐ whatʹs Hagrid attempting to do?ʹ said Harry nervously. 
Firenze surveyed Harry impassively. 
ʹHagrid has recently rendered me a great service,ʹ said Firenze, ʹand he has long 
since earned my respect for the care he shows all living creatures. 1 shall not 
betray his secret. But he must be brought to his senses. The attempt is not 
working. Tell him, Harry Potter. Good‐day to you.ʹ 
* 
The happiness Harry had felt in the aftermath of The Quibbler interview had long 
since evaporated. As a dull March blurred into a squally April, his life seemed to 
have become one long series of worries and problems again. 
Umbridge had continued attending all Care of Magical Creatures lessons, so it 
had been very difficult to deliver Firenzes warning to Hagrid. At last, Harry had 
managed it by pretending heʹd lost his copy of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find 
Them, and doubling back after class one day. When heʹd repeated Firenzes 
words, Hagrid gazed at him for a moment through his puffy, blackened eyes, 
apparently taken aback. Then he seemed to pull himself together. 
ʹNice bloke, Firenze,ʹ he said gruffly, ʹbut he donʹ know what heʹs talkinʹ abouʹ on 
this. The attempʹs cominʹ on fine.ʹ 
ʹHagrid, whatʹre you up to?ʹ asked Harry seriously. ʹBecause youʹve got to be 
careful, Umbridge has already sacked Trelawney and, if you ask me, sheʹs on a 
roll. If youʹre doing anything you shouldnʹt be, youʹll be ‐ʹ 
Thereʹs things more importanʹ than keepinʹ a job,ʹ said Hagrid, though his hands 
shook slightly as he said this and a basin full of Knarl droppings crashed to the 
floor. ʹDonʹ worry abouʹ me, Harry jusʹ get along now, thereʹs a good lad.ʹ 
Harry had no choice but to leave Hagrid mopping up the dung all over his floor, 
but he felt thoroughly dispirited as he trudged back up to the castle. 
Meanwhile, as the teachers and Hermione persisted in reminding them, the 
OWLs were drawing ever nearer. All the fifth‐years were suffering from stress to 
some degree, but Hannah Abbott became the first to receive a Calming Draught 
from Madam Pomfrey after she burst into tears during Herbology and sobbed 
that she was too stupid to take exams and wanted to leave school now. 

If it had not been for the DA lessons, Harry thought he would have been 
extremely unhappy. He sometimes felt he was living for the hours he spent in the 
Room of Requirement, working hard but thoroughly enjoying himself at the 
same time, swelling with pride as he looked around at his fellow DA members 
and saw how far they had come. Indeed, Harry sometimes wondered how 
Umbridge was going to react when all the members of the DA received 
ʹOutstandingʹ in their Defence Against the Dark Arts OWLs. 
They had finally started work on Patronuses, which everybody had been very 
keen to practise, though, as Harry kept reminding them, producing a Patronus in 
the middle of a brightly lit classroom when they were not under threat was very 
different from producing it when confronted by something like a Dementor. 
ʹOh, donʹt be such a killjoy,ʹ said Cho brightly, watching her silvery swan‐shaped 
Patronus soar around the Room of Requirement during their last lesson before 
Easter. Theyʹre so pretty!ʹ 
Theyʹre not supposed to be pretty, theyʹre supposed to protect you,ʹ said Harry 
patiently. ʹWhat we really need is a Boggart or something; thatʹs how 1 learned, I 
had to conjure a Patronus while the Boggart was pretending to be a Dementor ‐ʹ 
ʹBut that would be really scary!ʹ said Lavender, who was shooting puffs of silver 
vapour out of the end of her wand. ʹAnd I still ‐canʹt ‐ do it!ʹ she added angrily. 
Neville was having trouble, too. His face was screwed up in concentration, but 
only feeble wisps of silver smoke issued from his wand tip. 
ʹYouʹve got to think of something happy,ʹ Harry reminded him. 
ʹIʹm trying,ʹ said Neville miserably, who was trying so hard his round face was 
actually shining with sweat. 
ʹHarry, I think Iʹm doing it!ʹ yelled Seamus, who had been brought along to his 
first ever DA meeting by Dean. ʹLook ‐ ah ‐itʹs gone… but it was definitely 
something hairy, Harry!ʹ 
Hermioneʹs Patronus, a shining silver otter, was gambolling around her. 
They are sort of nice, arenʹt they?ʹ she said, looking at it fondly. 

The door of the Room of Requirement opened, and closed. Harry looked round 
to see who had entered, but there did not seem to be anybody there. It was a few 
moments before he realised that the people close to the door had fallen silent. 
Next thing he knew, something was tugging at his robes somewhere near the 
knee. He looked down and saw, to his very great astonishment, Dobby the 
house‐elf peering up at him from beneath his usual eight woolly hats. 
ʹHi, Dobby!ʹ he said. ʹWhat are you ‐ Whatʹs wrong?ʹ 
The elfʹs eyes were wide with terror and he was shaking. The members of the DA 
closest to Harry had fallen silent; everybody in the room was watching Dobby. 
The few Patronuses people had managed to conjure faded away into silver mist, 
leaving the room looking much darker than before. 
ʹHarry Potter, sir…ʹ squeaked the elf, trembling from head to foot, ʹHarry Potter, 
sir… Dobby has come to warn you… but the house‐elves have been warned not 
to tell…ʹ 
He ran head‐first at the wall. Harry, who had some experience ofDobbys habits 
of self‐punishment, made to seize him, but Dobby merely bounced off the stone, 
cushioned by his eight hats. Hermione and a few of the other girls let out 
squeaks of fear and sympathy. 
ʹWhatʹs happened, Dobby?ʹ Harry asked, grabbing the elfʹs tiny arm and holding 
him away from anything with which he might seek to hurt himself. 
ʹHarry Potter… she… she…ʺ 
Dobby hit himself hard on the nose with his free fist. Harry seized that, too. 
ʹWhoʹs ʺsheʺ, Dobby?ʹ 
But he thought he knew; surely only one ʹsheʹ could induce such fear in Dobby? 
The elf looked up at him, slightly cross‐eyed, and mouthed wordlessly. 
ʹUmbridge?ʹ asked Harry, horrified. 
Dobby nodded, then tried to bang his head on Harryʹs knees. Harry held him at 
armʹs length. 

ʹWhat about her? Dobby ‐ she hasnʹt found out about this ‐about us ‐ about the 
DA?ʹ 
He read the answer in the elfʹs stricken face. His hands held fast by Harry, the elf 
tried to kick himself and fell to the floor. 
ʹIs she coming?ʹ Harry asked quietly. 
Dobby let out a howl, and began beating his bare feet hard on the floor. 
ʹYes, Harry Potter, yes!ʹ 
Harry straightened up and looked around at the motionless, terrified people 
gazing at the thrashing elf. 
ʹWHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?ʹ Harry bellowed. ʹRUN!ʹ 
They all pelted towards the exit at once, forming a scrum at the door, then people 
burst through. Harry could hear them sprinting along the corridors and hoped 
they had the sense not to try and make it all the way to their dormitories. It was 
only ten to nine; if they just took refuge in the library or the Owlery, which were 
both nearer ‐ 
ʹHarry, come on!ʹ shrieked Hermione from the centre of the knot of people now 
fighting to get out. 
He scooped up Dobby, who was still attempting to do himself serious injury, and 
ran with the elf in his arms to join the back of the queue. 
ʹDobby ‐ this is an order ‐ get back down to the kitchen with the other elves and, 
if she asks you whether you warned me, lie and say no!ʹ said Harry. ʹAnd I forbid 
you to hurt yourself!ʹ he added, dropping the elf as he made it over the threshold 
at last and slammed the door behind him. 
Thank you, Harry Potter!ʹ squeaked Dobby, and he streaked off. Harry glanced 
left and right, the others were all moving so fast he caught only glimpses of 
flying heels at either end of the corridor before they vanished; he started to run 
right; there was a boysʹ bathroom up ahead, he could pretend heʹd been in there 
all the time if he could just reach it ‐ 
ʹAAARGH!ʹ 

Something caught him around the ankles and he fell spectacularly, skidding 
along on his front for six feet before coming to a halt. Someone behind him was 
laughing. He rolled over on to his back and saw Malfoy concealed in a niche 
beneath an ugly dragon‐shaped vase. 
Trip Jinx, Potter!ʹ he said. ʹHey Professor ‐ PROFESSOR! Iʹve got one!ʹ 
Umbridge came bustling round the far corner, breathless but wearing a delighted 
smile. 
ʹItʹs him!ʹ she said jubilantly at the sight of Harry on the floor. ʹExcellent, Draco, 
excellent, oh, very good ‐ fifty points to Slytherin! Iʹll take him from here… stand 
up, Potter!ʹ 
Harry got to his feet, glaring at the pair of them. He had never seen Umbridge 
looking so happy. She seized his arm in a vice‐like grip and turned, beaming 
broadly, to Malfoy. 
ʹYou hop along and see if you can round up any more of them, Draco,ʹ she said. 
Tell the others to look in the library ‐ anybody out of breath ‐ check the 
bathrooms, Miss Parkinson can do the girlsʹ ones ‐ off you go ‐ and you,ʹ she 
added in her softest, most dangerous voice, as Malfoy walked away, ʹyou can 
come with me to the Headmasters office, Potter.ʹ 
They were at the stone gargoyle within minutes. Harry wondered how many of 
the others had been caught. He thought of Ron ‐ Mrs Weasley would kill him ‐ 
and of how Hermione would feel if she was expelled before she could take her 
OWLs. And it had been Seamusʹs very first meeting… and Neville had been 
getting so good… 
ʹFizzing Whizzbee,ʹ sang Umbridge; the stone gargoyle jumped aside, the wall 
behind split open, and they ascended the moving stone staircase. They reached 
the polished door with the griffin knocker, but Umbridge did not bother to 
knock, she strode straight inside, still holding tight to Harry. 
The office was full of people. Dumbledore was sitting behind his desk, his 
expression serene, the tips of his long fingers together. Professor McGonagall 
stood rigidly beside him, her face extremely tense. Cornelius Fudge, Minister for 
Magic, was rocking backwards and forwards on his toes beside the fire, 
apparently immensely pleased with the situation; Kmgsley Shacklebolt and a 
tough‐looking wizard with very short wiry hair whom Harry did not recognise, 

were positioned either side of the door like guards, and the freckled, 
bespectacled form of Percy Weasley hovered excitedly beside the wall, a quill 
and a heavy scroll of parchment in his hands, apparently poised to take notes. 
The portraits of old headmasters and headmistresses were not shamming sleep 
tonight. All of them were alert and serious, watching what was happening below 
them. As Harry entered, a few flitted into neighbouring frames and whispered 
urgently into their neighbourʹs ear. 
Harry pulled himself free of Umbridgeʹs grasp as the door swung shut behind 
them. Cornelius Fudge was glaring at him with a kind of vicious satisfaction on 
his face. 
ʹWell,ʹ he said. ʹWell, well, well…ʺ 
Harry replied with the dirtiest look he could muster. His heart drummed madly 
inside him, but his brain was oddly cool and clear. 
ʹHe was heading back to Gryffindor Tower,ʹ said Umbridge. There was an 
indecent excitement in her voice, the same callous pleasure Harry had heard as 
she watched Professor Trelawney dissolving with misery in the Entrance Hall. 
The Malfoy boy cornered him.ʹ 
ʹDid he, did he?ʹ said Fudge appreciatively. ʹI must remember to tell Lucius. Well, 
Potter… I expect you know why you are here?ʹ 
Harry fully intended to respond with a defiant ʹyesʹ: his mouth had opened and 
the word was half‐formed when he caught sight of Dumbledoreʹs face. 
Dumbledore was not looking directly at Harry ‐ his eyes were fixed on a point 
just over his shoulder ‐ but as Harry stared at him, he shook his head a fraction 
of an inch to each side. 
Harry changed direction mid‐word. 
ʹYe—no.ʹ 
ʹI beg your pardon?ʹ said Fudge. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry, firmly. 
ʹYou donʹt know why you are here?ʹ 

ʹNo, I donʹt,ʹ said Harry. 
Fudge looked incredulously from Harry to Professor Umbridge. Harry took 
advantage of his momentary inattention to steal another quick look at 
Dumbledore, who gave the carpet the tiniest of nods and the shadow of a wink. 
ʹSo you have no idea,ʹ said Fudge, in a voice positively sagging with sarcasm, 
ʹwhy Professor Umbridge has brought you to this office? You are not aware that 
you have broken any school rules?ʹ 
ʹSchool rules?ʹ said Harry. ʹNo.ʹ 
ʹOr Ministry Decrees?ʹ amended Fudge angrily. 
ʹNot that Iʹm aware of,ʹ said Harry blandly. 
His heart was still hammering very fast. It was almost worth telling these lies to 
watch Fudges blood pressure rising, but he could not see how on earth he would 
get away with them; if somebody had tipped off Umbridge about the DA then 
he, the leader, might as well be packing his trunk right now. 
ʹSo, itʹs news to you, is it,ʹ said Fudge, his voice now thick with anger, ʹthat an 
illegal student organisation has been discovered within this school?ʹ 
ʹYes, it is,ʹ said Harry, hoisting an unconvincing look of innocent surprise on to 
his face. 
ʹI think, Minister,ʹ said Umbridge silkily from beside him, ʹwe might make better 
progress if I fetch our informant.ʹ 
ʹYes, yes, do,ʹ said Fudge, nodding, and he glanced maliciously at Dumbledore as 
Umbridge left the room. Thereʹs nothing like a good witness, is there, 
Dumbledore?ʹ 
ʹNothing at all, Cornelius,ʹ said Dumbledore gravely, inclining his head. 
There was a wait of several minutes, in which nobody looked at each other, then 
Harry heard the door open behind him. Umbridge moved past him into the 
room, gripping by the shoulder Choʹs curly‐haired friend, Marietta, who was 
hiding her face in her hands. 

ʹDonʹt be scared, dear, donʹt be frightened,ʹ said Professor Umbridge softly, 
patting her on the back, ʹitʹs quite all right, now. You have done the right thing. 
The Minister is very pleased with you. Heʹll be telling your mother what a good 
girl youʹve been. 
Mariettaʹs mother, Minister,ʹ she added, looking up at Fudge, ʹis Madam 
Edgecombe from the Department of Magical Transportation, Floo Network office 
‐ sheʹs been helping us police the Hogwarts fires, you know.ʹ 
ʹJolly good, jolly good!ʹ said Fudge heartily. ʹLike mother, like daughter, eh? 
Well, come on, now, dear, look up, donʹt be shy, letʹs hear what youʹve got to ‐ 
galloping gargoyles!ʹ 
As Marietta raised her head, Fudge leapt backwards in shock, nearly landing 
himself in the fire. He cursed, and stamped on the hem of his cloak which had 
started to smoke. Marietta gave a wail and pulled the neck of her robes right up 
to her eyes, but not before everyone had seen that her face was horribly 
disfigured by a series of close‐set purple pustules that had spread across her nose 
and cheeks to form the word ʹSNEAKʹ. 
ʹNever mind the spots now, dear,ʹ said Umbridge impatiently, ʹjust take your 
robes away from your mouth and tell the Minister ‐ʹ 
But Marietta gave another muffled wail and shook her head frantically. 
ʹOh, very well, you silly girl, Iʹll tell him,ʹ snapped Umbridge. She hitched her 
sickly smile back on to her face and said, ʹWell, Minister, Miss Edgecombe here 
came to my office shortly after dinner this evening and told me she had 
something she wanted to tell me. She said that if 1 proceeded to a secret room on 
the seventh floor, sometimes known as the Room of Requirement, I would find 
out something to my advantage. I questioned her a little further and she 
admitted that there was to be some kind of meeting there. Unfortunately, at that 
point this hex,ʹ she waved impatiently at Mariettaʹs concealed face, ʹcame into 
operation and upon catching sight of her face in my mirror the girl became too 
distressed to tell me any more.ʹ 
ʹWell, now,ʹ said Fudge, fixing Marietta with what he evidently imagined was a 
kind and fatherly look, ʹit is very brave of you, my dear, coming to tell Professor 
Umbridge. You did exactly the right thing. Now, will you tell me what happened 
at this meeting? What was its purpose? Who was there?ʹ 

But Marietta would not speak; she merely shook her head again, her eyes wide 
and fearful. 
ʹHavenʹt we got a counter‐jinx for this?ʹ Fudge asked Umbridge impatiently, 
gesturing at Mariettaʹs face. ʹSo she can speak freely?ʹ 
ʹI have not yet managed to find one,ʹ Umbridge admitted grudgingly, and Harry 
felt a surge of pride in Hermioneʹs jinxing ability. ʹBut it doesnʹt matter if she 
wonʹt speak, I can take up the story from here. 
ʹYou will remember, Minister, that I sent you a report back in October that Potter 
had met a number of fellow students in the Hogʹs Head in Hogsmeade ‐ʹ 
ʹAnd what is your evidence for that?ʹ cut in Professor McGonagall. 
ʹI have testimony from Willy Widdershins, Minerva, who happened to be in the 
bar at the time. He was heavily bandaged, it is true, but his hearing was quite 
unimpaired,ʹ said Umbridge smugly. ʹHe heard every word Potter said and 
hastened straight to the school to report to me ‐ʹ 
ʹOh, so thatʹs why he wasnʹt prosecuted for setting up all those regurgitating 
toilets!ʹ said Professor McGonagall, raising her eyebrows. ʹWhat an interesting 
insight into our justice system!ʹ 
ʹBlatant corruption!ʹ roared the portrait of the corpulent, red‐nosed wizard on the 
wall behind Dumbledoreʹs desk. The Ministry did not cut deals with petty 
criminals in my day, no sir, they did not!ʹ 
Thank you, Fortescue, that will do,ʹ said Dumbledore softly. 
The purpose of Potterʹs meeting with these students,ʹ continued Professor 
Umbridge, ʹwas to persuade them to join an illegal society, whose aim was to 
learn spells and curses the Ministry has decided are inappropriate for school‐age 
‐ʹ 
ʹI think youʹll find youʹre wrong there, Dolores,ʹ said Dumbledore quietly, 
peering at her over the half‐moon spectacles perched halfway down his crooked 
nose. 

Harry stared at him. He could not see how Dumbledore was going to talk him 
out of this one; if Willy Widdershins had indeed heard every word he had said in 
the Hogʹs Head there was simply no escaping it. 
ʹOho!ʹ said Fudge, bouncing up and down on the balls of his feet again. ʹYes, do 
letʹs hear the latest cock‐and‐bull story designed to pull Potter out of trouble! Go 
on, then, Dumbledore, go on ‐ 
Willy Widdershins was lying, was he? Or was it Potters identical twin in the 
Hogʹs Head that day? Or is there the usual simple explanation involving a 
reversal of time, a dead man coming back to life and a couple of invisible 
Dementors?ʹ 
Percy Weasley let out a hearty laugh. 
ʹOh, very good, Minister, very good!ʹ 
Harry could have kicked him. Then he saw, to his astonishment, that 
Dumbledore was smiling gently, too. 
ʹCornelius, I do not deny ‐ and nor, I am sure, does Harry ‐ ‐that he was in the 
Hogʹs Head that day, nor that he was trying to recruit students to a Defence 
Against the Dark Arts group. I am merely pointing out that Dolores is quite 
wrong to suggest that such a group was, at that time, illegal. If you remember, 
the Ministry Decree banning all student societies was not put into effect until two 
days after Harrys Hogsmeade meeting, so he was not breaking any rules at all in 
the Hogʹs Head.ʹ 
Percy looked as though he had been struck in the face by something very heavy. 
Fudge remained motionless in mid‐bounce, his mouth hanging open. 
Umbridge recovered first. : 
ʹThatʹs all very fine, Headmaster,ʹ she said, smiling sweetly, ʹbut we are now 
nearly six months on from the introduction of Educational Decree Number 
Twenty‐four. If the first meeting was not illegal, all those that have happened 
since most certainly are.ʹ 
ʹWell,ʹ said Dumbledore, surveying her with polite interest over the top of his 
interlocked fingers, ʹthey certainly would be, if they had continued after the 

Decree came into effect. Do you have any evidence that any such meetings 
continued?ʹ 
As Dumbledore spoke, Harry heard a rustle behind him and rather thought 
Kingsley whispered something. He could have sworn, too, that he felt something 
brush against his side, a gentle something like a draught or bird wings, but 
looking down he saw nothing there. 
ʹEvidence?ʹ repeated Umbridge, with that horrible wide toad‐like smile. ʹHave 
you not been listening, Dumbledore? Why do you think Miss Edgecombe is 
here?ʹ 
ʹOh, can she tell us about six monthsʹ worth of meetings?ʹ said 
Dumbledore, raising his eyebrows. ʹI was under the impression that she was 
merely reporting a meeting tonight.ʹ 
ʹMiss Edgecombe,ʹ said Umbridge at once, ʹtell us how long these meetings have 
been going on, dear. You can simply nod or shake your head, Iʹm sure that wonʹt 
make the spots worse. Have they been happening regularly over the last six 
months?ʹ 
Harry felt a horrible plummeting in his stomach. This was it, they had hit a dead 
end of solid evidence that not even Dumbledore would be able to shift aside. 
ʹJust nod or shake your head, dear,ʹ Umbridge said coaxingly to Marietta, ʹcome 
on, now, that wonʹt re‐activate the jinx.ʹ 
Everyone in the room was gazing at the top of Mariettaʹs face. Only her eyes 
were visible between the pulled‐up robes and her curly fringe. Perhaps it was a 
trick of the firelight, but her eyes looked oddly blank. And then ‐ to Harryʹs utter 
amazement ‐Marietta shook her head. 
Umbridge looked quickly at Fudge, then back at Marietta. 
ʹI donʹt think you understood the question, did you, dear? Iʹm asking whether 
youʹve been going to these meetings for the past six months? You have, havenʹt 
you?ʹ 
Again, Marietta shook her head. 

ʹWhat do you mean by shaking your head, dear?ʹ said Umbridge in a testy voice. 
ʹI would have thought her meaning was quite clear,ʹ said Professor McGonagall 
harshly, ʹthere have been no secret meetings for the past six months. Is that 
correct, Miss Edgecombe?ʹ 
Marietta nodded. 
ʹBut there was a meeting tonight!ʹ said Umbridge furiously. ʹThere was a 
meeting, Miss Edgecombe, you told me about it, in the Room of Requirement! 
And Potter was the leader, was he not, Potter organised it, Potter ‐ why are you 
shaking your head, girl?ʹ 
ʹWell, usually when a person shakes their head,ʹ said McGonagall coldly, ʹthey 
mean ʺnoʺ. So unless Miss Edgecombe is using a form of sign‐language as yet 
unknown to humans ‐ʹ 
Professor Umbridge seized Marietta, pulled her round to face her and began 
shaking her very hard. A split second later Dumbledore was on his feet, his 
wand raised; Kingsley started forwards and 
Umbridge leapt back from Marietta, waving her hands in the air as though they 
had been burned. 
ʹI cannot allow you to manhandle my students, Dolores,ʹ said Dumbledore and, 
for the first time, he looked angry. 
ʹYou want to calm yourself, Madam Umbridge,ʹ said Kingsley, in his deep, slow 
voice. ʹYou donʹt want to get yourself into trouble, now.ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Umbridge breathlessly, glancing up at the towering figure of Kingsley. 
ʹI mean, yes ‐ youʹre right, Shacklebolt ‐ I ‐ I forgot myself.ʹ 
Marietta was standing exactly where Umbridge had released her. She seemed 
neither perturbed by Umbridgeʹs sudden attack, nor relieved by her release; she 
was still clutching her robe up to her oddly blank eyes and staring straight ahead 
of her. 
A sudden suspicion, connected to Kingsleyʹs whisper and the thing he had felt 
shoot past him, sprang into Harryʹs mind. 

ʹDolores,ʹ said Fudge, with the air of trying to settle something once and for all, 
ʹthe meeting tonight ‐ the one we know definitely happened ‐ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Umbridge, pulling herself together, ʹyes… well, Miss Edgecombe 
tipped me off and I proceeded at once to the seventh floor, accompanied by 
certain trustworthy students, so as to catch those in the meeting red‐handed. It 
appears that they were forewarned of my arrival, however, because when we 
reached the seventh floor they were running in every direction. It does not 
matter, however. I have all their names here, Miss Parkinson ran into the Room 
of Requirement for me to see if they had left anything behind. We needed 
evidence and the room provided.ʹ 
And to Harryʹs horror, she withdrew from her pocket the list of names that had 
been pinned upon the Room of Requirementʹs wall and handed it to Fudge. 
The moment I saw Potterʹs name on the list, I knew what we were dealing with,ʹ 
she said softly. 
ʹExcellent,ʹ said Fudge, a smile spreading across his face, ʹexcellent, Dolores. 
And… by thunder…ʹ 
He looked up at Dumbledore, who was still standing beside Marietta, his wand 
held loosely in his hand. 
ʹSee what theyʹve named themselves?ʹ said Fudge quietly. ʹDumbledoreʹs Army.ʹ 
Dumbledore reached out and took the piece of parchment from Fudge. He gazed 
at the heading scribbled by Hermione months before and for a moment seemed 
unable to speak. Then he looked up, smiling. 
ʹWell, the game is up,ʹ he said simply. ʹWould you like a written confession from 
me, Cornelius ‐ or will a statement before these witnesses suffice?ʹ 
Harry saw McGonagall and Kingsley look at each other. There was fear in both 
faces. He did not understand what was going on, and nor, apparently, did 
Fudge. 
ʹStatement?ʹ said Fudge slowly. ʹWhat ‐ I donʹt ‐?ʹ 
ʹDumbledoreʹs Army, Cornelius,ʹ said Dumbledore, still smiling as he waved the 
list of names before Fudgeʹs face. ʹNot Potterʹs Army. Dumbledoreʹs Army.ʹ 

ʹBut ‐ but ‐ʹ 
Understanding blazed suddenly in Fudges face. He took a horrified step 
backwards, yelped, and jumped out of the fire again. 
ʹYou?ʹ he whispered, stamping again on his smouldering cloak. 
Thatʹs right,ʹ said Dumbledore pleasantly. 
ʹYou organised this?ʹ 
ʹI did,ʹ said Dumbledore. 
ʹYou recruited these students for ‐ for your army?ʹ 
Tonight was supposed to be the first meeting,ʹ said Dumbledore, nodding. 
ʹMerely to see whether they would be interested in joining me. I see now that it 
was a mistake to invite Miss Edgecombe, of course.ʹ 
Marietta nodded. Fudge looked from her to Dumbledore, his chest swelling. 
Then you have been plotting against me!ʹ he yelled. 
Thatʹs right,ʹ said Dumbledore cheerfully. 
ʹNO!ʹ shouted Harry. 
Kingsley flashed a look of warning at him, McGonagall widened her eyes 
threateningly, but it had suddenly dawned on Harry what Dumbledore was 
about to do, and he could not let it happen. 
ʹNo — Professor Dumbledore ‐!ʹ 
ʹBe quiet, Harry, or I am afraid you will have to leave my office,ʹ said 
Dumbledore calmly. 
ʹYes, shut up, Potter!ʹ barked Fudge, who was still ogling Dumbledore with a 
kind of horrified delight. ʹWell, well, well ‐ I came here tonight expecting to expel 
Potter and instead ‐ʹ 
ʹInstead you get to arrest me,ʹ said Dumbledore, smiling. ʹItʹs like losing a Knut 
and finding a Galleon, isnʹt it?ʹ 

ʹWeasley!ʹ cried Fudge, now positively quivering with delight, ʹWeasley, have 
you written it all down, everything heʹs said, his confession, have you got it?ʹ 
ʹYes, sir, 1 think so, sir!ʹ said Percy eagerly, whose nose was splattered with ink 
from the speed of his note‐taking. 
The bit about how heʹs been trying to build up an army against the Ministry, 
how heʹs been working to destabilise me?ʹ 
ʹYes, sir, Iʹve got it, yes!ʹ said Percy, scanning his notes joyfully. 
ʹVery well, then,ʹ said Fudge, now radiant with glee, ʹduplicate your notes, 
Weasley, and send a copy to the Daily Prophet at once. If we send a fast owl we 
should make the morning edition!ʹ Percy dashed from the room, slamming the 
door behind him, and Fudge turned back to Dumbledore. ʹYou will now be 
escorted back to the Ministry, where you will be formally charged, then sent to 
Azkaban to await trial!ʹ 
ʹAh,ʹ said Dumbledore gently, ʹyes. Yes, I thought we might hit that little snag.ʹ 
ʹSnag?ʹ said Fudge, his voice still vibrating with joy. ʹI see no snag, Dumbledore!ʹ 
ʹWell,ʹ said Dumbledore apologetically, ʹIʹm afraid I do.ʹ 
ʹOh, really?ʹ 
ʹWell ‐ itʹs just that you seem to be labouring under the delusion that I am going 
to ‐ what is the phrase? ‐ come quietly. I am afraid I am not going to come quietly 
at all, Cornelius. I have absolutely no intention of being sent to Azkaban. I could 
break out, of course ‐ but what a waste of time, and frankly, I can think of a 
whole host of things I would rather be doing.ʹ 
Umbridgeʹs face was growing steadily redder; she looked as though she was 
being filled with boiling water. Fudge stared at Dumbledore with a very silly 
expression on his face, as though he 
I 
had just been stunned by a sudden blow and could not quite believe it had 
happened. He made a small choking noise, then looked round at Kingsley and 
the man with short grey hair, who alone of everyone in the room had remained 

entirely silent so far. The latter gave Fudge a reassuring nod and moved 
forwards a little, away from the wall. Harry saw his hand drift, almost casually, 
towards his pocket. 
ʹDonʹt be silly, Dawlish,ʹ said Dumbledore kindly. ʹIʹm sure you are an excellent 
Auror ‐ I seem to remember that you achieved ʺOutstandingʺ in all your NEWTs 
— but if you attempt to — er — bring me in by force, I will have to hurt you.ʹ 
The man called Dawlish blinked rather foolishly. He looked towards Fudge 
again, but this time seemed to be hoping for a clue as to what to do next. 
ʹSo,ʹ sneered Fudge, recovering himself, ʹyou intend to take on Dawlish, 
Shacklebolt, Dolores and myself single‐handed, do you, Dumbledore?ʹ 
ʹMerlinʹs beard, no,ʹ said Dumbledore, smiling, ʹnot unless you are foolish 
enough to force me to.ʹ 
ʹHe will not be single‐handed!ʹ said Professor McGonagall loudly, plunging her 
hand inside her robes. 
ʹOh yes he will, Minerva!ʹ said Dumbledore sharply. ʹHogwarts needs you!ʹ 
ʹEnough of this rubbish!ʹ said Fudge, pulling out his own wand. ʹDawlish! 
Shacklebolt! Take him!ʹ 
A streak of silver light flashed around the room; there was a bang like a gunshot 
and the floor trembled; a hand grabbed the scruff of Harryʹs neck and forced him 
down on the floor as a second silver flash went off; several of the portraits yelled, 
Fawkes screeched and a cloud of dust filled the air. Coughing in the dust, Harry 
saw a dark figure fall to the ground with a crash in front of him; there was a 
shriek and a thud and somebody cried, ʹNo!ʹ; then there was the sound of 
breaking glass, frantically scuffling footsteps, a groan… and silence. 
Harry struggled around to see who was half‐strangling him and saw Professor 
McGonagall crouched beside him; she had forced both him and Marietta out of 
harmʹs way. Dust was still floating gently down through the air on to them. 
Panting slightly, Harry saw a very tall figure moving towards them. 
ʹAre you all right?ʹ Dumbledore asked. 

ʹYes!ʹ said Professor McGonagall, getting up and dragging Harry and Marietta 
with her. 
The dust was clearing. The wreckage of the office loomed into view: 
Dumbledoreʹs desk had been overturned, all of the spindly tables had been 
knocked to the floor, their silver instruments in pieces. Fudge, Umbridge, 
Kingsley and Dawlish lay motionless on the floor. Fawkes the phoenix soared in 
wide circles above them, singing softly. 
ʹUnfortunately, I had to hex Kingsley too, or it would have looked very 
suspicious,ʹ said Dumbledore in a low voice. ʹHe was remarkably quick on the 
uptake, modifying Miss Edgecombeʹs memory like that while everyone was 
looking the other way ‐ thank him, for me, wonʹt you, Minerva? 
ʹNow, they will all awake very soon and it will be best if they do not know that 
we had time to communicate ‐ you must act as though no time has passed, as 
though they were merely knocked to the ground, they will not remember ‐ʹ 
ʹWhere will you go, Dumbledore?ʹ whispered Professor McGonagall. 
ʹGrimmauld Place?ʹ 
ʹOh no,ʹ said Dumbledore, with a grim smile, ʹI am not leaving to go into hiding. 
Fudge will soon wish heʹd never dislodged me from Hogwarts, I promise you.ʹ 
ʹProfessor Dumbledore…ʹ Harry began. 
He did not know what to say first: how sorry he was that he had started the DA 
in the first place and caused all this trouble, or how terrible he felt that 
Dumbledore was leaving to save him from expulsion? But Dumbledore cut him 
off before he could say another word. 
ʹListen to me, Harry,ʹ he said urgently. ʹYou must study Occlumency as hard as 
you can, do you understand me? Do everything Professor Snape tells you and 
practise it particularly every night before sleeping so that you can close your 
mind to bad dreams ‐ you will understand why soon enough, but you must 
promise me ‐ʹ 
The man called Dawlish was stirring. Dumbledore seized Harryʹs wrist. 
ʹRemember ‐ close your mind ‐ʹ 

But as Dumbledoreʹs fingers closed over Harrys skin, a pain shot through the 
scar on his forehead and he felt again that terrible, snakelike longing to strike 
Dumbledore, to bite him, to hurt him ‐ 
ʹ‐ you will understand,ʹ whispered Dumbledore. 
Fawkes circled the office and swooped low over him. Dumbledore released 
Harry, raised his hand and grasped the phoenixʹs long golden tail. There was a 
flash of fire and the pair of them were gone. 
ʹWhere is he?ʹ yelled Fudge, pushing himself up from the floor. ʹWhere is he?ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know!ʹ shouted Kingsley, also leaping to his feet. 
ʹWell, he canʹt have Disapparated!ʹ cried Umbridge. ʹYou canʹt do it from inside 
this school ‐ʹ 
ʹThe stairs!ʹ cried Dawlish, and he flung himself upon the door, wrenched it open 
and disappeared, followed closely by Kingsley and Umbridge. Fudge hesitated, 
then got slowly to his feet, brushing dust from his front. There was a long and 
painful silence. 
ʹWell, Minerva,ʹ said Fudge nastily, straightening his torn shirtsleeve, ʹIʹm afraid 
this is the end of your friend Dumbledore.ʹ 
ʹYou think so, do you?ʹ said Professor McGonagall scornfully. 
Fudge seemed not to hear her. He was looking around at the wrecked office. A 
few of the portraits hissed at him; one or two even made rude hand gestures. 
ʹYouʹd better get those two off to bed,ʹ said Fudge, looking back at Professor 
McGonagall with a dismissive nod towards Harry and Marietta. 
Professor McGonagall said nothing, but marched Harry and Marietta to the door. 
As it swung closed behind them, Harry heard Phineas Nigellusʹs voice. 
ʹYou know, Minister, I disagree with Dumbledore on many counts… but you 
cannot deny heʹs got style…ʹ 
— CHAPTER TWENTY‐EIGHT — 

Snapeʹs Worst Memory
BY ORDER OF THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC 
Dolores Jane Umbridge (High Inquisitor) has replaced
Albus Dumbledore as Head of Hogwarts School of
Witchcraft and Wizardry.
The above is in accordance with Educational Decree Number Twenty‐eight.
Signed: Cornelius Oswald Fudge, Minister for Magic
The notices had gone up all around the school overnight, but they did not 
explain how every single person within the castle seemed to know that 
Dumbledore had overcome two Aurors, the High Inquisitor, the Minister for 
Magic and his Junior Assistant to escape. No matter where Harry went within 
the castle, the sole topic of conversation was Dumbledoreʹs flight, and though 
some of the details may have gone awry in the retelling (Harry overheard one 
second‐year girl assuring another that Fudge was now lying in St Mungoʹs with a 
pumpkin for a head) it was surprising how accurate the rest of their information 
was. Everybody knew, for instance, that Harry and Marietta were the only 
students to have witnessed the scene in Dumbledoreʹs office and, as Marietta was 
now in the hospital wing, Harry found himself besieged with requests to give a 
first‐hand account. 
ʹDumbledore will be back before long,ʹ said Ernie Macmillan confidently on the 
way back from Herbology, after listening intently to Harryʹs story. They couldnʹt 
keep him away in our second year and they wonʹt be able to this time. The Fat 
Friar told me ‐ʹ he dropped his voice conspiratorially, so that Harry, Ron and 
Hermione had to lean closer to him to hear ʹ‐ that Umbridge tried to get back into 
his office last night after theyʹd searched the castle and grounds for him. Couldnʹt 
get past the gargoyle. The Headʹs office has sealed itself against her.ʹ Ernie 
smirked. ʹApparently, she had a right little tantrum.ʹ 
ʹOh, I expect she really fancied herself sitting up there in the Heads office,ʹ said 
Hermione viciously, as they walked up the stone steps into the Entrance Hall. 
ʹLording it over all the other teachers, the stupid puffed‐up, power‐crazy old ‐ʹ 
ʹNow, do you really want to finish that sentence, Granger?ʹ 

Draco Malfoy had slid out from behind the door, closely followed by Crabbe and 
Goyle. His pale, pointed face was alight with malice. 
ʹAfraid Iʹm going to have to dock a few points from Gryffindor and Hufflepuff,ʹ 
he drawled. 
ʹItʹs only teachers who can dock points from houses, Malfoy,ʹ said Ernie at once. 
ʹYeah, weʹre prefects, too, remember?ʹ snarled Ron. 
ʹI know prefects canʹt dock points, Weasel King,ʹ sneered Malfoy. Crabbe and 
Goyle sniggered. ʹBut members of the Inquisitorial Squad ‐ʹ 
The whatT said Hermione sharply. 
The Inquisitorial Squad, Granger,ʹ said Malfoy, pointing towards a tiny silver ʹI 
on his robes just beneath his prefectʹs badge. ʹA select group of students who are 
supportive of the Ministry of Magic, hand‐picked by Professor Umbridge. 
Anyway, members of the Inquisitorial Squad do have the power to dock points… 
so, Granger, Iʹll have five from you for being rude about our new Headmistress. 
Macmillan, five for contradicting me. Five because I donʹt like you, Potter. 
Weasley, your shirts untucked, so Iʹll have another five for that. Oh yeah, I 
forgot, youʹre a Mudblood, Granger, so ten off for that.ʹ 
Ron pulled out his wand, but Hermione pushed it away, whispering, ʹDonʹt!ʹ 
ʹWise move, Granger,ʹ breathed Malfoy. ʹNew Head, new times 
… be good now, Potty… Weasel King…ʹ 
Laughing heartily, he strode away with Crabbe and Goyle. 
ʹHe was bluffing,ʹ said Ernie, looking appalled. ʹHe canʹt be allowed to dock 
points… that would be ridiculous… it would completely undermine the prefect 
system.ʹ 
But Harry, Ron and Hermione had turned automatically towards the giant hour‐
glasses set in niches along the wall behind them, which recorded the house‐
points. Gryffindor and Ravenclaw had been neck and neck in the lead that 
morning. Even as they watched, stones flew upwards, reducing the amounts in 

the lower bulbs. In fact, the only glass that seemed unchanged was the emerald‐
filled one of Slytherin. 
ʹNoticed, have you?ʹ said Fredʹs voice. 
He and George had just come down the marble staircase and joined Harry, Ron, 
Hermione and Ernie in front of the hour‐glasses. 
ʹMalfoy just docked us all about fifty points,ʹ said Harry furiously, as they 
watched several more stones fly upwards from the Gryffindor hour‐glass. 
ʹYeah, Montague tried to do us during break,ʹ said George. 
ʹWhat do you mean, ʺtriedʺ?ʹ said Ron quickly. 
ʹHe never managed to get all the words out,ʹ said Fred, ʹdue to the fact that we 
forced him head‐first into that Vanishing Cabinet on the first floor.ʹ 
Hermione looked very shocked. 
ʹBut youʹll get into terrible trouble!ʹ 
ʹNot until Montague reappears, and that could take weeks, I dunno where we 
sent him,ʹ said Fred coolly. ʹAnyway… weʹve decided we donʹt care about getting 
into trouble any more.ʹ 
ʹHave you ever?ʹ asked Hermione. 
ʹCourse we have,ʹ said George. ʹNever been expelled, have we?ʹ 
ʹWeʹve always known where to draw the line,ʹ said Fred. 
ʹWe might have put a toe across it occasionally,ʹ said George. 
ʹBut weʹve always stopped short of causing real mayhem,ʹ said Fred. 
ʹBut now?ʹ said Ron tentatively. 
ʹWell, now ‐ʹ said George. 
ʹ‐ what with Dumbledore gone ‐ʹ said Fred. 

ʹ‐ we reckon a bit of mayhem —ʹ said George. 
ʹ— is exactly what our dear new Head deserves,ʹ said Fred. 
ʹYou mustnʹt!ʹ whispered Hermione. ʹYou really mustnʹt! Sheʹd love a reason to 
expel you!ʹ 
ʹYou donʹt get it, Hermione, do you?ʹ said Fred, smiling at her. ʹWe donʹt care 
about staying any more. Weʹd walk out right now if we werenʹt determined to do 
our bit for Dumbledore first. So, anyway,ʹ he checked his watch, ʹphase one is 
about to begin. Iʹd get in the Great Hall for lunch, if I were you, that way the 
teachers will see you canʹt have had anything to do with it.ʹ 
ʹAnything to do with what?ʹ said Hermione anxiously. 
ʹYouʹll see,ʹ said George. ʹRun along, now.ʹ 
Fred and George turned away and disappeared into the swelling crowd 
descending the stairs towards lunch. Looking highly disconcerted, Ernie 
muttered something about unfinished Transfiguration homework and scurried 
away. 
ʹI think we should get out of here, you know,ʹ said Hermione nervously. ʹJust in 
case 
ʹYeah, all right,ʹ said Ron, and the three of them moved towards the doors to the 
Great Hall, but Harry had barely glimpsed the dayʹs ceiling of scudding white 
clouds when somebody tapped him on the shoulder and, turning, he found 
himself almost nose‐to‐nose with Filch the caretaker. He took several hasty steps 
backwards; Filch was best viewed at a distance. 
The Headmistress would like to see you, Potter,ʹ he leered. 
ʹI didnʹt do it,ʹ said Harry stupidly, thinking of whatever Fred and George were 
planning. Filchʹs jowls wobbled with silent laughter. 
ʹGuilty conscience, eh?ʹ he wheezed. ʹFollow me.ʹ 
Harry glanced back at Ron and Hermione, who were both looking worried. He 
shrugged, and followed Filch back into the Entrance Hall, against the tide of 
hungry students. 

Filch seemed to be in an extremely good mood; he hummed creakily under his 
breath as they climbed the marble staircase. As they reached the first landing he 
said, Things are changing around here, Potter.ʹ 
ʹIʹve noticed,ʹ said Harry coldly. 
ʹYerse… Iʹve been telling Dumbledore for years and years heʹs too soft with you 
all,ʹ said Filch, chuckling nastily. ʹYou filthy little beasts would never have 
dropped Stink Pellets if youʹd known I had it in my power to whip you raw, 
would you, now? Nobody would have thought of throwing Fanged Frisbees 
down the corridors if I couldʹve strung you up by the ankles in my office, would 
they? But when Educational Decree Number Twenty‐nine comes in, Potter, Iʹll be 
allowed to do them things… and sheʹs asked the Minister to sign an order for the 
expulsion of Peeves… oh, things are going to be very different around here with 
her in charge 
Umbridge had obviously gone to some lengths to get Filch on her side, Harry 
thought, and the worst of it was that he would probably prove an important 
weapon; his knowledge of the schoolʹs secret passageways and hiding places was 
probably second only to that of the Weasley twins. 
ʹHere we are,ʹ he said, leering down at Harry as he rapped three times on 
Professor Umbridgeʹs door and pushed it open. The Potter boy to see you, 
Maʹam.ʹ 
Umbridgeʹs office, so very familiar to Harry from his many detentions, was the 
same as usual except for the large wooden block lying across the front of her 
desk on which golden letters spelled the word: HEADMISTRESS. Also, his 
Firebolt and Fred and Georgeʹs Cleansweeps, which he saw with a pang, were 
chained and padlocked to a stout iron peg in the wall behind the desk. 
Umbridge was sitting behind the desk, busily scribbling on some of her pink 
parchment, but she looked up and smiled widely at their entrance. 
Thank you, Argus,ʹ she said sweetly. 
ʹNot at all, Maʹam, not at all,ʹ said Filch, bowing as low as his rheumatism would 
permit, and exiting backwards. 
ʹSit,ʹ said Umbridge curtly, pointing towards a chair. Harry sat. She continued to 
scribble for a few moments. He watched some of the foul kittens gambolling 

around the plates over her head, wondering what fresh horror she had in store 
for him. 
ʹWell, now,ʹ she said finally, setting down her quill and surveying him 
complacently, like a toad about to swallow a particularly juicy fly. ʹWhat would 
you like to drink?ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry, quite sure he had misheard her. 
To drink, Mr Potter,ʹ she said, smiling still more widely. Tea? Coffee? Pumpkin 
juice?ʹ 
As she named each drink, she gave her short wand a wave, and a cup or glass of 
it appeared on her desk. 
ʹNothing, thank you,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹI wish you to have a drink with me,ʹ she said, her voice becoming dangerously 
sweet. ʹChoose one.ʹ 
ʹFine… tea then,ʹ said Harry, shrugging. 
She got up and made quite a performance of adding milk with her back to him. 
She then bustled around the desk with it, smiling in a sinisterly sweet fashion. 
There,ʹ she said, handing it to him. ʹDrink it before it gets cold, wonʹt you? Well, 
now, Mr Potter… I thought we ought to have a little chat, after the distressing 
events of last night.ʹ 
He said nothing. She settled herself back into her seat and waited. When several 
long moments had passed in silence, she said gaily, ʹYouʹre not drinking up!ʹ 
He raised the cup to his lips and then, just as suddenly, lowered it. One of the 
horrible painted kittens behind Umbridge had great round blue eyes just like 
Mad‐Eye Moodyʹs magical one and it had just occurred to Harry what Mad‐Eye 
would say if he ever heard that Harry had drunk anything offered by a known 
enemy. 
ʹWhatʹs the matter?ʹ said Umbridge, who was still watching him closely. ʹDo you 
want sugar?ʹ 

ʹNo,ʹ said Harry. 
He raised the cup to his lips again and pretended to take a sip, though keeping 
his mouth tightly closed. Umbridgeʹs smile widened. 
ʹGood,ʹ she whispered. ʹVery good. Now then…ʹ She leaned forwards a little. 
ʹWhere is Albus Dumbledore?ʹ 
ʹNo idea,ʹ said Harry promptly. 
ʹDrink up, drink up,ʹ she said, still smiling. ʹNow, Mr Potter, let us not play 
childish games. I know that you know where he has gone. You and Dumbledore 
have been in this together from the beginning. Consider your position, Mr 
Potter…ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know where he is,ʹ Harry repeated. 
He pretended to drink again. She was watching him very closely. 
ʹVery well,ʹ she said, though she looked displeased. ʹIn that case, you will kindly 
tell me the whereabouts of Sirius Black.ʹ 
Harryʹs stomach turned over and his hand holding the teacup shook so that it 
rattled in its saucer. He tilted the cup to his mouth with his lips pressed together, 
so that some of the hot liquid trickled down on to his robes. 
ʹI donʹt know,ʹ he said, a little too quickly. 
ʹMr Potter,ʹ said Umbridge, ʹlet me remind you that it was I who almost caught 
the criminal Black in the Gryffindor fire in October. I know perfectly well it was 
you he was meeting and if 1 had had any proof neither of you would be at large 
today, I promise you. I repeat, Mr Potter… where is Sirius Black?ʹ 
ʹNo idea,ʹ said Harry loudly. ʹHavenʹt got a clue.ʹ 
They stared at each other so long that Harry felt his eyes watering. Then 
Umbridge stood up. 
ʹVery well, Potter, I will take your word for it this time, but be warned: the might 
of the Ministry stands behind me. All channels of communication in and out of 
this school are being monitored. A Floo Network Regulator is keeping watch 

over every fire in Hogwarts ‐ except my own, of course. My Inquisitorial Squad 
is opening and reading all owl post entering and leaving the castle. And Mr Filch 
is observing all secret passages in and out of the castle. If I find a shred of 
evidence…ʹ 
BOOM! 
The very floor of the office shook. Umbridge slipped sideways, clutching her 
desk for support, and looking shocked. 
ʹWhat was ‐?ʹ 
She was gazing towards the door. Harry took the opportunity to empty his 
almost‐full cup of tea into the nearest vase of dried flowers. He could hear 
people running and screaming several floors below. 
ʹBack to lunch you go, Potter!ʹ cried Umbridge, raising her wand and dashing out 
of the office. Harry gave her a few secondsʹ start, then hurried after her to see 
what the source of all the uproar was. 
It was not difficult to find. One floor down, pandemonium reigned. Somebody 
(and Harry had a very shrewd idea who) had set off what seemed to be an 
enormous crate of enchanted fireworks. 
Dragons comprised entirely of green and gold sparks were soaring up and down 
the corridors, emitting loud fiery blasts and bangs as they went; shocking‐pink 
Catherine wheels five feet in diameter were whizzing lethally through the air like 
so many flying saucers; rockets with long tails of brilliant silver stars were 
ricocheting off the walls; sparklers were writing swear words in midair of their 
own accord; firecrackers were exploding like mines everywhere Harry looked, 
and instead of burning themselves out, fading from sight or fizzling to a halt, 
these pyrotechnical miracles seemed to be gaining in energy and momentum the 
longer he watched. 
Filch and Umbridge were standing, apparently transfixed in horror, halfway 
down the stairs. As Harry watched, one of the larger Catherine wheels seemed to 
decide that what it needed was more room to manoeuvre; it whirled towards 
Umbridge and Filch with a sinister ʹwheeeeeeeeeeʹ. They both yelled with fright 
and ducked, and it soared straight out of the window behind them and off across 
the grounds. Meanwhile, several of the dragons and a large purple bat that was 

smoking ominously took advantage of the open door at the end of the corridor to 
escape towards the second floor. 
ʹHurry, Filch, hurry!ʹ shrieked Umbridge, ʹtheyʹll be all over the school unless we 
do something ‐ Stupefy]ʹ
A jet of red light shot out of the end of her wand and hit one of the rockets. 
Instead of freezing in midair, it exploded with such force that it blasted a hole in 
a painting of a soppy‐looking witch in the middle of a meadow; she ran for it just 
in time, reappearing seconds later squashed into the next painting, where a 
couple of wizards playing cards stood up hastily to make room for her. 
ʹDonʹt Stun them, Filch!ʹ shouted Umbridge angrily, for all the world as though it 
had been his incantation. 
ʹRight you are, Headmistress!ʹ wheezed Filch, who as a Squib could no more 
have Stunned the fireworks than swallowed them. He dashed to a nearby 
cupboard, pulled out a broom and began swatting at the fireworks in midair; 
within seconds the head of the broom was ablaze. 
Harry had seen enough; laughing, he ducked down low, ran to a door he knew 
was concealed behind a tapestry a little way along the corridor and slipped 
through it to find Fred and George hiding just behind it, listening to Umbridge 
and Filchʹs yells and quaking with suppressed mirth. 
ʹImpressive,ʹ Harry said quietly, grinning. ʹVery impressive… youʹll put Dr 
Filibuster out of business, no problem…ʹ 
ʹCheers,ʹ whispered George, wiping tears of laughter from his face. ʹOh, I hope 
she tries Vanishing them next… they multiply by ten every time you try.ʹ 
The fireworks continued to burn and to spread all over the school that afternoon. 
Though they caused plenty of disruption, particularly the firecrackers, the other 
teachers didnʹt seem to mind them very much. 
ʹDear, dear,ʹ said Professor McGonagall sardonically, as one of the dragons 
soared around her classroom, emitting loud bangs and exhaling flame. ʹMiss 
Brown, would you mind running along to the Headmistress and informing her 
that we have an escaped firework in our classroom?ʹ 

The upshot of it all was that Professor Umbridge spent her first afternoon as 
Headmistress running all over the school answering the summonses of the other 
teachers, none of whom seemed able to rid their rooms of the fireworks without 
her. When the final bell rang and they were heading back to Gryffindor Tower 
with their bags, Harry saw, with immense satisfaction, a dishevelled and soot‐
blackened Umbridge tottering sweaty‐faced from Professor Flitwickʹs classroom. 
Thank you so much, Professor!ʹ said Professor Flitwick in his squeaky little voice. 
ʹI could have got rid of the sparklers myself, of course, but I wasnʹt sure whether 
or not I had the authority.ʹ 
Beaming, he closed his classroom door in her snarling face. 
Fred and George were heroes that night in the Gryffindor common room. Even 
Hermione fought her way through the excited crowd to congratulate them. 
They were wonderful fireworks,ʹ she said admiringly. 
Thanks,ʹ said George, looking both surprised and pleased. ʹWeasleysʹ Wildfire 
Whiz‐bangs. Only thing is, we used our whole stock; weʹre going to have to start 
again from scratch now.ʹ 
ʹIt was worth it, though,ʹ said Fred, who was taking orders from clamouring 
Gryffindors. ʹIf you want to add your name to the waiting list, Hermione, itʹs five 
Galleons for your Basic Blaze box and twenty for the Deflagration Deluxe…ʹ 
Hermione returned to the table where Harry and Ron were sitting staring at their 
schoolbags as though hoping their homework would spring out and start doing 
itself. 
ʹOh, why donʹt we have a night off?ʹ said Hermione brightly, as a silver‐tailed 
Weasley rocket zoomed past the window. ʹAfter all, the Easter holidays start on 
Friday, weʹll have plenty of time then.ʹ 
ʹAre you feeling all right?ʹ Ron asked, staring at her in disbelief. 
ʹNow you mention it,ʹ said Hermione happily,ʹdʹyou know… I think Iʹm feeling a 
bit… rebellious.ʹ 

Harry could still hear the distant bangs of escaped firecrackers when he and Ron 
went up to bed an hour later; and as he got undressed a sparkler floated past the 
tower, still resolutely spelling out the word TOOʹ. 
He got into bed, yawning. With his glasses off, the occasional firework passing 
the window had become blurred, looking like sparkling clouds, beautiful and 
mysterious against the black sky. He turned on to his side, wondering how 
Umbridge was feeling about her first day in Dumbledoreʹs job, and how Fudge 
would react when he heard that the school had spent most of the day in a state of 
advanced disruption. Smiling to himself, Harry closed his eyes… 
The whizzes and bangs of escaped fireworks in the grounds seemed to be 
growing more distant… or perhaps he was simply speeding away from them… 
He had fallen right into the corridor leading to the Department of Mysteries. He 
was speeding towards the plain black door… let it open… let it open… 
It did. He was inside the circular room lined with doors… he crossed it, placed 
his hand on an identical door and it swung inwards… 
Now he was in a long, rectangular room full of an odd mechanical clicking. 
There were dancing flecks of light on the walls but he did not pause to 
investigate… he had to go on… 
There was a door at the far end… it, too, opened at his touch… 
And now he was in a dimly lit room as high and wide as a church, full of nothing 
but rows and rows of towering shelves, each laden with small, dusty, spun‐glass 
spheres… now Harrys heart was beating fast with excitement… he knew where 
to go… he ran forwards, but his footsteps made no noise in the enormous, 
deserted room… 
There was something in this room he wanted very, very much… 
Something he wanted… or somebody else wanted… 
His scar was hurting… 
BANG! 

Harry awoke instantly, confused and angry. The dark dormitory was full of the 
sound of laughter. 
ʹCool!ʹ said Seamus, who was silhouetted against the window. ʹI think one of 
those Catherine wheels hit a rocket and itʹs like they mated, come and see!ʹ 
Harry heard Ron and Dean scramble out of bed for a better look. He lay quite 
still and silent while the pain in his scar subsided and disappointment washed 
over him. He felt as though a wonderful treat had been snatched from him at the 
very last moment… he had got so close that time. 
Glittering pink and silver winged piglets were now soaring past the windows of 
Gryffindor Tower. Harry lay and listened to the appreciative whoops of 
Gryffindors in the dormitories below them. His stomach gave a sickening jolt as 
he remembered that he had Occlumency the following evening. 
* 
Harry spent the whole of the next day dreading what Snape was going to say if 
he found out how much further into the Department of Mysteries Harry had 
penetrated during his last dream. With a surge of guilt he realised that he had 
not practised Occlumency once since their last lesson: there had been too much 
going on since Dumbledore had left; he was sure he would not have been able to 
empty his mind even if he had tried. He doubted, however, whether Snape 
would accept that excuse. 
He attempted a little last‐minute practice during classes that day, but it was no 
good. Hermione kept asking him what was wrong whenever he fell silent trying 
to rid himself of all thought and emotion and, after all, the best moment to empty 
his brain was not while teachers were firing revision questions at the class. 
Resigned to the worst, he set off for Snapeʹs office after dinner. Halfway across 
the Entrance Hall, however, Cho came hurrying up to him. 
ʹOver here,ʹ said Harry, glad of a reason to postpone his meeting with Snape, and 
beckoning her across to the corner of the Entrance Hall where the giant hour‐
glasses stood. Gryffindorʹs was now almost empty. ʹAre you OK? Umbridge 
hasnʹt been asking you about the DA, has she?ʹ 
ʹOh, no,ʹ said Cho hurriedly. ʹNo, it was only… well, I just wanted to say… 
Harry, I never dreamed Marietta would tell…ʹ 

ʹYeah, well,ʹ said Harry moodily. He did feel Cho might have chosen her friends 
a bit more carefully; it was small consolation that the last he had heard, Marietta 
was still up in the hospital wing and Madam Pomfrey had not been able to make 
the slightest improvement to her pimples. 
ʹSheʹs a lovely person really,ʹ said Cho. ʹShe just made a mistake ‐ʹ 
Harry looked at her incredulously. 
ʹA lovely person who made a mistake? She sold us all out, including you!ʹ 
ʹWell… we all got away, didnʹt we?ʹ said Cho pleadingly. ʹYou know, her mum 
works for the Ministry, itʹs really difficult for her ‐ʹ 
ʹRonʹs dad works for the Ministry too!ʹ Harry said furiously. ʹAnd in case you 
hadnʹt noticed, he hasnʹt got sneak written across his face ‐ʹ 
That was a really horrible trick of Hermione Grangerʹs,ʹ said Cho fiercely. ʹShe 
should have told us sheʹd jinxed that list ‐ʹ 
ʹI think it was a brilliant idea,ʹ said Harry coldly. Cho flushed and her eyes grew 
brighter. 
ʹOh yes, I forgot ‐ of course, if it was darling Hermioneʹs idea ‐ʹ 
ʹDonʹt start crying again,ʹ said Harry warningly. 
ʹI wasnʹt going to!ʹ she shouted. 
ʹYeah… well… good,ʹ he said. Iʹve got enough to cope with at the moment.ʹ 
ʹGo and cope with it then!ʹ Cho said furiously, turning on her heel and stalking 
off. 
Fuming, Harry descended the stairs to Snapeʹs dungeon and, though he knew 
from experience how much easier it would be for Snape to penetrate his mind if 
he arrived angry and resentful, he succeeded in nothing but thinking of a few 
more things he should have said to Cho about Marietta before reaching the 
dungeon door. 
ʹYouʹre late, Potter,ʹ said Snape coldly, as Harry closed the door behind him. 

Snape was standing with his back to Harry, removing, as usual, certain of his 
thoughts and placing them carefully in Dumbledores Pensieve. He dropped the 
last silvery strand into the stone basin and turned to face Harry. 
ʹSo,ʹ he said. ʹHave you been practising?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ Harry lied, looking carefully at one of the legs of Snapeʹs desk. 
ʹWell, weʹll soon find out, wonʹt we?ʹ said Snape smoothly. ʹWand out, Potter.ʹ 
Harry moved into his usual position, facing Snape with the desk between them. 
His heart was pumping fast with anger at Cho and anxiety about how much 
Snape was about to extract from his mind. 
ʹOn the count of three then,ʹ said Snape lazily. ʹOne ‐ two ‐ʹ 
Snapeʹs office door banged open and Draco Malfoy sped in. 
ʹProfessor Snape, sir ‐ oh ‐ sorry ‐ʹ 
Malfoy was looking at Snape and Harry in some surprise. 
ʹItʹs all right, Draco,ʹ said Snape, lowering his wand. ʹPotter is here for a little 
remedial Potions.ʹ 
Harry had not seen Malfoy look so gleeful since Umbridge had turned up to 
inspect Hagrid. 
ʹI didnʹt know,ʹ he said, leering at Harry, who knew his face was burning. He 
would have given a great deal to be able to shout the truth at Malfoy ‐ or, even 
better, to hit him with a good curse. 
ʹWell, Draco, what is it?ʹ asked Snape. 
ʹItʹs Professor Umbridge, sir ‐ she needs your help,ʹ said Malfoy. 
Theyʹve found Montague, sir, heʹs turned up jammed inside a toilet on the fourth 
floor.ʹ 
ʹHow did he get in there?ʹ demanded Snape. 
ʹI donʹt know, sir, heʹs a bit confused.ʹ 

ʹVery well, very well. Potter,ʹ said Snape, ʹwe shall resume this lesson tomorrow 
evening.ʹ 
He turned and swept from his office. Malfoy mouthed, ʹRemedial Potions?ʹ at 
Harry behind Snapeʹs back before following him. 
Seething, Harry replaced his wand inside his robes and made to leave the room. 
At least he had twenty‐four more hours in which to practise; he knew he ought 
to feel grateful for the narrow escape, though it was hard that it came at the 
expense of Malfoy telling the whole school that he needed remedial Potions. 
He was at the office door when he saw it: a patch of shivering light dancing on 
the doorframe. He stopped, and stood looking at it, reminded of something… 
then he remembered: it was a little like the lights he had seen in his dream last 
night, the lights in the second room he had walked through on his journey 
through the Department of Mysteries. 
He turned around. The light was coming from the Pensieve sitting on Snapeʹs 
desk. The silver‐white contents were ebbing and swirling within. Snapeʹs 
thoughts… things he did not want Harry to see if he broke through Snapeʹs 
defences accidentally… 
Harry gazed at the Pensieve, curiosity welling inside him… what was it that 
Snape was so keen to hide from Harry? 
The silvery lights shivered on the wall… Harry took two steps towards the desk, 
thinking hard. Could it possibly be information about the Department of 
Mysteries that Snape was determined to keep from him? 
Harry looked over his shoulder, his heart now pumping harder and faster than 
ever. How long would it take Snape to release Montague from the toilet? Would 
he come straight back to his office afterwards, or accompany Montague to the 
hospital wing? Surely the latter… Montague was Captain of the Slytherin 
Quidditch team, Snape would want to make sure he was all right. 
Harry walked the remaining few feet to the Pensieve and stood over it, gazing 
into its depths. He hesitated, listening, then pulled out his wand again. The office 
and the corridor beyond were completely silent. He gave the contents of the 
Pensieve a small prod with the end of his wand. 

The silvery stuff within began to swirl very fast. Harry leaned forwards over it 
and saw that it had become transparent. He was, once again, looking down into a 
room as though through a circular window in the ceiling… in fact, unless he was 
much mistaken, he was looking down into the Great Hall. 
His breath was actually fogging the surface of Snapeʹs thoughts… his brain 
seemed to be in limbo… it would be insane to do the thing he was so strongly 
tempted to do… he was trembling… Snape could be back at any moment… but 
Harry thought of Chos anger, of Malfoyʹs jeering face, and a reckless daring 
seized him. 
He took a great gulp of breath, and plunged his face into the surface of Snapeʹs 
thoughts. At once, the floor of the office lurched, tipping Harry head‐first into 
the Pensieve… 
He was falling through cold blackness, spinning furiously as he went, and then ‐ 
He was standing in the middle of the Great Hall, but the four house tables were 
gone. Instead, there were more than a hundred smaller tables, all facing the same 
way, at each of which sat a student, head bent low, scribbling on a roll of 
parchment. The only sound was the scratching of quills and the occasional rustle 
as somebody adjusted their parchment. It was clearly exam time. 
Sunshine was streaming through the high windows on to the bent heads, which 
shone chestnut and copper and gold in the bright light. Harry looked around 
carefully. Snape had to be here somewhere… this was his memory… 
And there he was, at a table right behind Harry. Harry stared. Snape‐the‐
teenager had a stringy, pallid look about him, like a plant kept in the dark. His 
hair was lank and greasy and was flopping on to the table, his hooked nose 
barely half an inch from the surface of the parchment as he scribbled. Harry 
moved around behind Snape and read the heading of the examination paper: 
DEFENCE AGAINST THE DARK ARTS ‐ ORDINARY WIZARDING LEVEL. 
So Snape had to be fifteen or sixteen, around Harryʹs own age. His hand was 
flying across the parchment; he had written at least a foot more than his closest 
neighbours, and yet his writing was minuscule and cramped. 
ʹFive more minutes!ʹ 

The voice made Harry jump. Turning, he saw the top of Professor Flitwickʹs head 
moving between the desks a short distance away. Professor Flitwick was walking 
past a boy with untidy black hair… very untidy black hair… 
Harry moved so quickly that, had he been solid, he would have knocked desks 
flying. Instead he seemed to slide, dreamlike, across two aisles and up a third. 
The back of the black‐haired boyʹs head drew nearer and… he was straightening 
up now, putting down his quill, pulling his roll of parchment towards him so as 
to reread what he had written… 
Harry stopped in front of the desk and gazed down at his fifteen‐year‐old father. 
Excitement exploded in the pit of his stomach: it was as though he was looking at 
himself but with deliberate mistakes. Jamesʹs eyes were hazel, his nose was 
slightly longer than Harryʹs and there was no scar on his forehead, but they had 
the same thin face, same mouth, same eyebrows; Jamesʹs hair stuck up at the 
back exactly as Harryʹs did, his hands could have been Harryʹs and Harry could 
tell that, when James stood up, they would be within an inch of each other in 
height. 
James yawned hugely and rumpled up his hair, making it even messier than it 
had been. Then, with a glance towards Professor Flitwick, he turned in his seat 
and grinned at a boy sitting four seats behind him. 
With another shock of excitement, Harry saw Sirius give James the thumbs‐up. 
Sirius was. lounging in his chair at his ease, tilting it back on two legs. He was 
very good‐looking; his dark hair fell into his eyes with a sort of casual elegance 
neither Jamesʹs nor Harryʹs could ever have achieved, and a girl sitting behind 
him was eyeing him hopefully, though he didnʹt seem to have noticed. And two 
seats along from this girl ‐ Harryʹs stomach gave another pleasurable squirm ‐ 
was Remus Lupin. He looked rather pale and peaky (was the full moon 
approaching?) and was absorbed in the exam: as he reread his answers, he 
scratched his chin with the end of his quill, frowning slightly. 
So that meant Wormtail had to be around here somewhere, too… and sure 
enough, Harry spotted him within seconds: a small, mousy‐haired boy with a 
pointed nose. Wormtail looked anxious; he was chewing his fingernails, staring 
down at his paper, scuffing the ground with his toes. Every now and then he 
glanced hopefully at his neighbours paper. Harry stared at Wormtail for a 
moment, then back at James, who was now doodling on a bit of scrap parchment. 

He had drawn a Snitch and was now tracing the letters ʹL.E.ʹ. What did they 
stand for? 
ʹQuills down, please!ʹ squeaked Professor Flitwick. That means you too, Stebbins! 
Please remain seated while I collect your parchment! Accio!ʹ 
Over a hundred rolls of parchment zoomed into the air and into Professor 
Flitwickʹs outstretched arms, knocking him backwards off his feet. Several 
people laughed. A couple of students at the front desks got up, took hold of 
Professor Flitwick beneath the elbows and lifted him back on to his feet. 
Thank you… thank you,ʹ panted Professor Flitwick. ʹVery well, everybody, 
youʹre free to go!ʹ 
Harry looked down at his father, who had hastily crossed out the ʹL.E.ʹ he had 
been embellishing, jumped to his feet, stuffed his quill and the exam paper into 
his bag, which he slung over his back, and stood waiting for Sirius to join him. 
Harry looked around and glimpsed Snape a short way away, moving between 
the tables towards the doors to the Entrance Hall, still absorbed in his own exam 
paper. Round‐shouldered yet angular, he walked in a twitchy manner that 
recalled a spider, and his oily hair was jumping about his face. 
A gang of chattering girls separated Snape from James, Sirius and Lupin, and by 
planting himself in their midst, Harry managed to keep Snape in sight while 
straining his ears to catch the voices of James and his friends. 
ʹDid you like question ten, Moony?ʹ asked Sirius as they emerged into the 
Entrance Hall. 
ʹLoved it,ʹ said Lupin briskly. ʹGive five signs that identify the werewolf. Excellent 
question.ʹ 
ʹDʹyou think you managed to get all the signs?ʹ said James in tones of mock 
concern. 
Think I did,ʹ said Lupin seriously, as they joined the crowd thronging around the 
front doors eager to get out into the sunlit grounds. ʹOne: heʹs sitting on my 
chair. Two: heʹs wearing my clothes. Three: his nameʹs Remus Lupin.ʹ 
Wormtail was the only one who didnʹt laugh. 

ʹI got the snout shape, the pupils of the eyes and the tufted tail,ʹ he said 
anxiously, ʹbut I couldnʹt think what else ‐ʹ 
ʹHow thick are you, Wormtail?ʹ said James impatiently. ʹYou run round with a 
werewolf once a month ‐ʹ 
ʹKeep your voice down,ʹ implored Lupin. 
Harry looked anxiously behind him again. Snape remained close by, still buried 
in his exam questions ‐ but this was Snapeʹs memory and Harry was sure that if 
Snape chose to wander off in a different direction once outside in the grounds, 
he, Harry, would not be able to follow James any further. To his intense relief, 
however, when James and his three friends strode off down the lawn towards 
the lake, Snape followed, still poring over the exam paper and apparently with 
no fixed idea of where he was going. By keeping a little ahead of him, Harry 
managed to maintain a close watch on James and the others. 
ʹWell, I thought that paper was a piece of cake,ʹ he heard Sirius say. Til be 
surprised if I donʹt get ʺOutstandingʺ on it at least.ʹ 
ʹMe too,ʹ said James. He put his hand in his pocket and took out a struggling 
Golden Snitch. 
ʹWhereʹd you get that?ʹ 
ʹNicked it,ʹ said James casually. He started playing with the Snitch, allowing it to 
fly as much as a foot away before seizing it again; his reflexes were excellent. 
Wormtail watched him in awe. 
They stopped in the shade of the very same beech tree on the edge of the lake 
where Harry, Ron and Hermione had once spent a Sunday finishing their 
homework, and threw themselves down on the grass. Harry looked over his 
shoulder yet again and saw, to his delight, that Snape had settled himself on the 
grass in the dense shadow of a clump of bushes. He was as deeply immersed in 
the OWL paper as ever, which left Harry free to sit down on the grass between 
the beech and the bushes and watch the foursome under the tree. The sunlight 
was dazzling on the smooth surface of the lake, on the bank of which the group 
of laughing girls who had just left the Great Hall were sitting, with their shoes 
and socks off, cooling their feet in the water. 

Lupin had pulled out a book and was reading. Sirius stared around at the 
students milling over the grass, looking rather haughty and bored, but very 
handsomely so. James was still playing with the Snitch, letting it zoom further 
and further away, almost escaping but always grabbed at the last second. 
Wormtail was watching him with his mouth open. Every time James made a 
particularly difficult catch, Wormtail gasped and applauded. After five minutes 
of this, Harry wondered why James didnʹt tell Wormtail to get a grip on himself, 
but James seemed to be enjoying the attention. Harry noticed that his father had 
a habit of rumpling up his hair as though to keep it from getting too tidy, and he 
also kept looking over at the girls by the waterʹs edge. 
Tut that away, will you,ʹ said Sirius finally, as James made a fine catch and 
Wormtail let out a cheer, ʹbefore Wormtail wets himself with excitement.ʹ 
Wormtail turned slightly pink, but James grinned. 
ʹIf it bothers you,ʹ he said, stuffing the Snitch back in his pocket. Harry had the 
distinct impression that Sirius was the only one for whom James would have 
stopped showing off. 
ʹIʹm bored,ʹ said Sirius. ʹWish it was full moon.ʹ 
ʹYou might,ʹ said Lupin darkly from behind his book. ʹWeʹve still got 
Transfiguration, if youʹre bored you could test me. Here…ʺ and he held out his 
book. 
But Sirius snorted. ʹI donʹt need to look at that rubbish, I know it all.ʹ 
Thisʹll liven you up, Padfoot,ʹ said James quietly. ʹLook who it is…ʹ 
Siriusʹs head turned. He became very still, like a dog that has scented a rabbit. 
ʹExcellent,ʹ he said softly. ʹSnivellus.ʹ 
Harry turned to see what Sirius was looking at. 
Snape was on his feet again, and was stowing the OWL paper in his bag. As he 
left the shadows of the bushes and set off across the grass, Sirius and James stood 
up. 

Lupin and Wormtail remained sitting: Lupin was still staring down at his book, 
though his eyes were not moving and a faint frown line had appeared between 
his eyebrows; Wormtail was looking from Sirius and James to Snape with a look 
of avid anticipation on his face. 
ʹAll right, Snivellus?ʹ said James loudly. 
Snape reacted so fast it was as though he had been expecting an attack: dropping 
his bag, he plunged his hand inside his robes and his wand was halfway into the 
air when James shouted, ʹExpelliarmus!ʹ 
Snapeʹs wand flew twelve feet into the air and fell with a little thud in the grass 
behind him. Sirius let out a bark of laughter. 
ʹImpedimenta!ʹ he said, pointing his wand at Snape, who was knocked off his feet 
halfway through a dive towards his own fallen wand. 
Students all around had turned to watch. Some of them had got to their feet and 
were edging nearer. Some looked apprehensive, others entertained. 
Snape lay panting on the ground. James and Sirius advanced on him, wands 
raised, James glancing over his shoulder at the girls at the waterʹs edge as he 
went. Wormtail was on his feet now, watching hungrily, edging around Lupin to 
get a clearer view. 
ʹHowʹd the exam go, Snivelly?ʹ said James. 
ʹI was watching him, his nose was touching the parchment,ʹ said Sirius viciously. 
Thereʹll be great grease marks all over it, they wonʹt be able to read a word.ʹ 
Several people watching laughed; Snape was clearly unpopular. Wormtail 
sniggered shrilly. Snape was trying to get up, but the jinx was still operating on 
him; he was struggling, as though bound by invisible ropes. 
ʹYou ‐ wait,ʹ he panted, staring up at James with an expression of purest loathing, 
ʹyou ‐ wait!ʹ 
ʹWait for what?ʹ said Sirius coolly. ʹWhatʹre you going to do, Snivelly, wipe your 
nose on us?ʹ 

Snape let out a stream of mixed swear words and hexes, but with his wand ten 
feet away nothing happened. 
ʹWash out your mouth,ʹ said James coldly. ʹScourgify!ʹ 
Pink soap bubbles streamed from Snapeʹs mouth at once; the froth was covering 
his lips, making him gag, choking him ‐ 
ʹLeave him ALONE!ʹ 
James and Sirius looked round. Jamesʹs free hand immediately jumped to his 
hair. 
It was one of the girls from the lake edge. She had thick, dark red hair that fell to 
her shoulders, and startlingly green almond‐shaped eyes ‐ Harryʹs eyes. 
Harryʹs mother. 
ʹAll right, Evans?ʹ said James, and the tone of his voice was suddenly pleasant, 
deeper, more mature. 
ʹLeave him alone,ʹ Lily repeated. She was looking at James with every sign of 
great dislike. ʹWhatʹs he done to you?ʹ 
ʹWell,ʹ said James, appearing to deliberate the point, ʹitʹs more the fact that he 
exists, if you know what I mean…ʹ 
Many of the surrounding students laughed, Sirius and Wormtail included, but 
Lupin, still apparently intent on his book, didnʹt, and nor did Lily. 
ʹYou think youʹre funny,ʹ she said coldly. ʹBut youʹre just an arrogant, bullying 
toerag, Potter. Leave him alone.ʹ 
ʹI will if you go out with me, Evans,ʹ said James quickly. ʹGo on… go out with me 
and Iʹll never lay a wand on old Snivelly again.ʹ 
Behind him, the Impediment Jinx was wearing off. Snape was beginning to inch 
towards his fallen wand, spitting out soapsuds as he crawled. 
ʹI wouldnʹt go out with you if it was a choice between you and the giant squid,ʹ 
said Lily. 

ʹBad luck, Prongs,ʹ said Sirius briskly, and turned back to Snape. ʹOI!ʹ 
But too late; Snape had directed his wand straight at James; there was a flash of 
light and a gash appeared on the side of Jamesʹs face, spattering his robes with 
blood. James whirled about: a second flash of light later, Snape was hanging 
upside‐down in the air, his robes falling over his head to reveal skinny, pallid 
legs and a pair of greying underpants. 
Many people in the small crowd cheered; Sirius, James and Wormtail roared 
with laughter. 
Lily, whose furious expression had twitched for an instant as though she was 
going to smile, said, ʹLet him down!ʹ 
ʹCertainly,ʹ said James and he jerked his wand upwards; Snape fell into a 
crumpled heap on the ground. Disentangling himself from his robes he got 
quickly to his feet, wand up, but Sirius said, ʹPetrificus Totalus!ʹ and Snape keeled 
over again, rigid as a board. 
ʹLEAVE HIM ALONE!ʹ Lily shouted. She had her own wand out now. James and 
Sirius eyed it warily. 
ʹAh, Evans, donʹt make me hex you,ʹ said James earnestly. 
Take the curse off him, then!ʹ 
James sighed deeply, then turned to Snape and muttered the counter‐curse. 
There you go,ʹ he said, as Snape struggled to his feet. ʹYouʹre lucky Evans was 
here, Snivellus —ʹ 
ʹI donʹt need help from filthy little Mudbloods like her!ʹ 
Lily blinked. 
ʹFine,ʹ she said coolly. ʹI wonʹt bother in future. And Iʹd wash your pants if I were 
you, Snivellus.ʹ 
ʹApologise to Evans!ʹ James roared at Snape, his wand pointed threateningly at 
him. 

ʹI donʹt want you to make him apologise,ʹ Lily shouted, rounding on James. 
ʹYouʹre as bad as he is.ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ yelped James. Iʹd NEVER call you a ‐ you‐know‐what!ʹ 
ʹMessing up your hair because you think it looks cool to look like youʹve just got 
off your broomstick, showing off with that stupid Snitch, walking down 
corridors and hexing anyone who annoys you just because you can ‐ Iʹm 
surprised your broomstick can get off the ground with that fat head on it. You 
make me SICK.ʹ 
She turned on her heel and hurried away. 
ʹEvans!ʹ James shouted after her. ʹHey, EVANS!ʹ 
But she didnʹt look back. 
ʹWhat is it with her?ʹ said James, trying and failing to look as though this was a 
throwaway question of no real importance to him. 
ʹReading between the lines, Iʹd say she thinks youʹre a bit conceited, mate,ʹ said 
Sirius. 
ʹRight,ʹ said James, who looked furious now, ʹright ‐ʹ 
There was another flash of light, and Snape was once again hanging upside‐
down in the air. 
ʹWho wants to see me take off Snivellyʹs pants?ʹ 
But whether James really did take off Snapes pants, Harry never found out. A 
hand had closed tight over his upper arm, closed with a pincer‐like grip. 
Wincing, Harry looked round to see who had hold of him, and saw, with a thrill 
of horror, a fully grown, adult‐sized Snape standing right beside him, white with 
rage. 
ʹHaving fun?ʹ 
Harry felt himself rising into the air; the summerʹs day evaporated around him; 
he was floating upwards through icy blackness, Snapeʹs hand still tight upon his 
upper arm. Then, with a swooping feeling as though he had turned head‐over‐

heels in midair, his feet hit the stone floor of Snapeʹs dungeon and he was 
standing again beside the Pensieve on Snapeʹs desk in the shadowy, present‐day 
Potion masters study. 
ʹSo,ʹ said Snape, gripping Harryʹs arm so tightly Harryʹs hand was starting to feel 
numb. ʹSo… been enjoying yourself, Potter?ʹ 
ʹN‐no,ʹ said Harry, trying to free his arm. 
It was scary: Snapeʹs lips were shaking, his face v:as white, his teeth were bared. 
ʹAmusing man, your father, wasnʹt he?ʹ said Snape, shaking Harry so hard his 
glasses slipped down his nose. 
ʹI ‐ didnʹt ‐ʹ 
Snape threw Harry from him with all his might. Harry fell hard on to the 
dungeon floor. <;
ʹYou will not repeat what you saw to anybody!ʹ Snape bellowed. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry, getting to his feet as far from Snape as he could. ʹNo, of course I 
w—ʹ 
ʹGet out, get out, I donʹt want to see you in this office ever again!ʹ 
And as Harry hurtled towards the door, a jar of dead cockroaches exploded over 
his head. He wrenched the door open and flew along the corridor, stopping only 
when he had put three floors between himself and Snape. There he leaned 
against the wall, panting, and rubbing his bruised arm. 
He had no desire at all to return to Gryffindor Tower so early, nor to tell Ron and 
Hermione what he had just seen. What was making Harry feel so horrified and 
unhappy was not being shouted at or having jars thrown at him; it was that he 
knew how it felt to be humiliated in the middle of a circle of onlookers, knew 
exactly how Snape had felt as his father had taunted him, and that judging from 
what he had just seen, his father had been every bit as arrogant as Snape had 
always told him. 
— CHAPTER TWENTY‐NINE — 

Careers Advice
ʹBut why havenʹt you got Occlumency lessons any more?ʹ said Hermione, 
frowning. 
ʹIʹve told you,ʹ Harry muttered. ʹSnape reckons I can carry on by myself now Iʹve 
got the basics.ʹ 
ʹSo youʹve stopped having funny dreams?ʹ said Hermione sceptically. 
ʹPretty much,ʹ said Harry, not looking at her. 
ʹWell, I donʹt think Snape should stop until youʹre absolutely sure you can 
control them!ʹ said Hermione indignantly. ʹHarry, I think you should go back to 
him and ask ‐ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry forcefully. ʹJust drop it, Hermione, OK?ʹ 
It was the first day of the Easter holidays and Hermione, as was her custom, had 
spent a large part of the day drawing up revision timetables for the three of 
them. Harry and Ron had let her do it; it was easier than arguing with her and, in 
any case, they might come in useful. 
Ron had been startled to discover there were only six weeks left until their 
exams. 
ʹHow can that come as a shock?ʹ Hermione demanded, as she tapped each little 
square on Ronʹs timetable with her wand so that it flashed a different colour 
according to its subject. 
ʹI dunno,ʹ said Ron, ʹthereʹs been a lot going on.ʹ 
ʹWell, there you are,ʹ she said, handing him his timetable, ʹif you follow that you 
should do fine.ʹ 
Ron looked down it gloomily, but then brightened. 
ʹYouʹve given me an evening off every week!ʹ 
Thatʹs for Quidditch practice,ʹ said Hermione. 
The smile faded from Ronʹs face. 

ʹWhatʹs the point?ʹ he said dully. ʹWeʹve got about as much chance of winning the 
Quidditch Cup this year as Dadʹs got of becoming Minister for Magic.ʹ 
Hermione said nothing; she was looking at Harry, who was staring blankly at the 
opposite wall of the common room while Crookshanks pawed at his hand, trying 
to get his ears scratched. 
ʹWhatʹs wrong, Harry?ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ he said quickly. ʹNothing.ʹ 
He seized his copy of Defensive Magical Theory and pretended to be looking 
something up in the index. Crookshanks gave him up as a bad job and slunk 
away under Hermioneʹs chair. 
ʹI saw Cho earlier,ʹ said Hermione tentatively. ʹShe looked really miserable, too… 
have you two had a row again?ʹ 
ʹWha— oh, yeah, we have,ʹ said Harry, seizing gratefully on the excuse. 
ʹWhat about?ʹ 
That sneak friend of hers, Marietta,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYeah, well, I donʹt blame you!ʹ said Ron angrily, setting down his revision 
timetable. ʹIf it hadnʹt been for her…ʹ 
Ron went into a rant about Marietta Edgecombe, which Harry found helpful; all 
he had to do was look angry, nod and say ʹYeahʹ and Thatʹs rightʹ whenever Ron 
drew breath, leaving his mind free to dwell, ever more miserably, on what he 
had seen in the Pensieve. 
He felt as though the memory of it was eating him from inside. He had been so 
sure his parents were wonderful people that he had never had the slightest 
difficulty in disbelieving the aspersions Snape cast on his fatherʹs character. 
Hadnʹt people like Hagrid and Sirius told Harry how wonderful his father had 
been? (Yeah, well, look what Sirius was like himself, said a nagging voice inside 
Harryʹs head… he was as bad, wasnʹt he?) Yes, he had once overheard Professor 
McGonagall saying that his father and Sirius had been troublemakers at school, 
but she had described them as forerunners of the Weasley twins, and Harry 
could not imagine Fred and George dangling someone upside‐down for the fun 

of it… not unless they really loathed them… perhaps Malfoy, or somebody who 
really deserved it… 
Harry tried to make a case for Snape having deserved what he had suffered at 
Jamesʹs hands: but hadnʹt Lily asked, ʹWhatʹs he done to you?ʹ And hadnʹt James 
replied, ʹItʹs more the fact that he exists, if you know what I mean.ʹ Hadnʹt James 
started it all simply because Sirius had said he was bored? Harry remembered 
Lupin saying back in Grimmauld Place that Dumbledore had made him prefect 
in the hope that he would be able to exercise some control over James and 
Sirius… but in the Pensieve, he had sat there and let it all happen… 
Harry kept reminding himself that Lily had intervened; his mother had been 
decent. Yet, the memory of the look on her face as she had shouted at James 
disturbed him quite as much as anything else; she had clearly loathed James, and 
Harry simply could not understand how they could have ended up married. 
Once or twice he even wondered whether James had forced her into it… 
For nearly five years the thought of his father had been a source of comfort, of 
inspiration. Whenever someone had told him he was like James, he had glowed 
with pride inside. And now… now he felt cold and miserable at the thought of 
him. 
The weather grew breezier, brighter and warmer as the Easter holidays passed, 
but Harry, along with the rest of the fifth‐ and seventh‐years, was trapped inside, 
revising, traipsing back and forth to the library. Harry pretended his bad mood 
had no other cause but the approaching exams, and as his fellow Gryffindors 
were sick of studying themselves, his excuse went unchallenged. 
ʹHarry, Iʹm talking to you, can you hear me?ʹ 
ʹHuh?ʹ 
He looked round. Ginny Weasley, looking very windswept, had joined him at 
the library table where he had been sitting alone. It was late on Sunday evening: 
Hermione had gone back to Gryffindor Tower to revise Ancient Runes, and Ron 
had Quidditch practice. 
ʹOh, hi,ʹ said Harry, pulling his books towards him. ʹHow come youʹre not at 
practice?ʹ 
ʹItʹs over,ʹ said Ginny. ʹRon had to take Jack Sloper up to the hospital wing.ʹ 

ʹWhy?ʹ 
ʹWell, weʹre not sure, but we think he knocked himself out with his own bat.ʹ She 
sighed heavily. ʹAnyway… a package just arrived, itʹs only just got through 
Umbridgeʹs new screening process.ʹ 
She hoisted a box wrapped in brown paper on to the table; it had clearly been 
unwrapped and carelessly re‐wrapped. There was a scribbled note across it in 
red ink, reading: Inspected and Passed by the Hogwarts High Inquisitor. 
ʹItʹs Easter eggs from Mum,ʹ said Ginny. Thereʹs one for you… there you go.ʹ 
She handed him a handsome chocolate egg decorated with small, iced Snitches 
and, according to the packaging, containing a bag of Fizzing Whizzbees. Harry 
looked at it for a moment, then, to his horror, felt a lump rise in his throat. 
ʹAre you OK, Harry?ʹ Ginny asked quietly. 
ʹYeah, Iʹm fine,ʹ said Harry gruffly. The lump in his throat was painful. He did 
not understand why an Easter egg should have made him feel like this. 
ʹYou seem really down lately,ʹ Ginny persisted. ʹYou know, Iʹm sure if you just 
talked to Cho…ʹ 
ʹItʹs not Cho I want to talk to,ʹ said Harry brusquely. 
ʹWho is it, then?ʹ asked Ginny, watching him closely. 
ʹI…ʹ 
He glanced around to make quite sure nobody was listening. Madam Pince was 
several shelves away, stamping out a pile of books for a frantic‐looking Hannah 
Abbott. 
ʹI wish I could talk to Sirius,ʹ he muttered. ʹBut I know I canʹt.ʹ 
Ginny continued to watch him thoughtfully. More to give himself something to 
do than because he really wanted any, Harry unwrapped his Easter egg, broke 
off a large bit and put it into his mouth. 

ʹWell,ʹ said Ginny slowly, helping herself to a bit of egg, too, ʹif you really want to 
talk to Sirius, I expect we could think of a way to do it.ʹ 
ʹCome on,ʹ said Harry dully. ʹWith Umbridge policing the fires and reading all 
our mail?ʹ 
The thing about growing up with Fred and George,ʹ said Ginny thoughtfully, ʹis 
that you sort of start thinking anythingʹs possible if youʹve got enough nerve.ʹ 
Harry looked at her. Perhaps it was the effect of the chocolate ‐ Lupin had always 
advised eating some after encounters with Dementors ‐ or simply because he had 
finally spoken aloud the wish that had been burning inside him for a week, but 
he felt a bit more hopeful. 
ʹWHAT DO YOU THINK YOU ARE DOING?ʹ 
ʹOh damn,ʹ whispered Ginny, jumping to her feet. ʹI forgot ‐ʹ Madam Pince was 
swooping down on them, her shrivelled face contorted with rage. 
ʹChocolate in the library!ʹ she screamed. ʹOut ‐ out ‐ OUT!ʹ And whipping out her 
wand, she caused Harryʹs books, bag and ink bottle to chase him and Ginny from 
the library, whacking them repeatedly over the head as they ran. 
* 
As though to underline the importance of their upcoming examinations, a batch 
of pamphlets, leaflets and notices concerning various wizarding careers 
appeared on the tables in Gryffindor Tower shortly before the end of the 
holidays, along with yet another notice on the board, which read: 
All fifth‐years are required to attend a short meeting with their
Head of House during the first week of the summer term to discuss 
their future careers. Times of individual appointments are listed below.
Harry looked down the list and found that he was expected in Professor 
McGonagallʹs office at half past two on Monday, which would mean missing 
most of Divination. He and the other fifth‐years spent a considerable part of the 
final weekend of the Easter break reading all the careers information that had 
been left there for their perusal. 

ʹWell, I donʹt fancy Healing,ʹ said Ron on the last evening of the holidays. He was 
immersed in a leaflet that carried the crossed bone‐and‐wand emblem of St 
Mungoʹs on its front. ʹIt says here you need at least ʺEʺ at NEWT level in Potions, 
Herbology, Transfiguration, Charms and Defence Against the Dark Arts. I 
mean… blimey… donʹt want much, do they?ʹ 
ʹWell, itʹs a very responsible job, isnʹt it?ʹ said Hermione absently. 
She was poring over a bright pink and orange leaflet that was headed, ʹSO YOU 
THINK YOUʹD LIKE TO WORK IN MUGGLE RELATIONS?ʹ 
ʹYou donʹt seem to need many qualifications to liaise with Muggles; all they want 
is an OWL in Muggle Studies: Much more important is your enthusiasm, patience and 
a good sense offunlʹ
ʹYouʹd need more than a good sense of fun to liaise with my uncle,ʹ said Harry 
darkly. ʹGood sense of when to duck, more like.ʹ He was halfway through a 
pamphlet on wizard banking. ʹListen to this: Are you seeking a challenging career 
involving travel, adventure and substantial, danger‐related treasure bonuses? Then 
consider a position with Gringotts Wizarding Bank, who are currently recruiting Curse‐
Breakers for thrilling opportunities abroad… They want Arithmancy, though; you 
could do it, Hermione!ʹ 
ʹI donʹt much fancy banking,ʹ said Hermione vaguely, now immersed in: ʹHAVE 
YOU GOT WHAT IT TAKES TO TRAIN SECURITY TROLLS?ʹ 
ʹHey,ʹ said a voice in Harryʹs ear. He looked round; Fred and George had come to 
join them. ʹGinnys had a word with us about you,ʹ said Fred, stretching out his 
legs on the table in front of them and causing several booklets on careers with the 
Ministry of Magic to slide off on to the floor. ʹShe says you need to talk to Sirius?ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Hermione sharply, freezing with her hand halfway towards picking 
up ʹMAKE A BANG AT THE DEPARTMENT OF MAGICAL ACCIDENTS AND 
CATASTROPHESʹ. 
ʹYeah…ʹ said Harry, trying to sound casual, ʹyeah, I thought Iʹd like ‐ʹ 
ʹDonʹt be so ridiculous,ʹ said Hermione, straightening up and looking at him as 
though she could not believe her eyes. ʹWith Umbridge groping around in the 
fires and frisking all the owls?ʹ 

ʹWell, we think we can find a way around that,ʹ said George, stretching and 
smiling. ʹItʹs a simple matter of causing a diversion. Now, you might have 
noticed that we have been rather quiet on the mayhem front during the Easter 
holidays?ʹ 
ʹWhat was the point, we asked ourselves, of disrupting leisure time?ʹ continued 
Fred. ʹNo point at all, we answered ourselves. And of course, weʹd have messed 
up peopleʹs revision, too, which would be the very last thing weʹd want to do.ʹ 
He gave Hermione a sanctimonious little nod. She looked rather taken aback by 
this thoughtfulness. 
ʹBut its business as usual from tomorrow,ʹ Fred continued briskly. ʹAnd if weʹre 
going to be causing a bit of uproar, why not do it so that Harry can have his chat 
with Sirius?ʹ 
ʹYes, but still,ʹ said Hermione, with an air of explaining something very simple to 
somebody very obtuse, ʹeven if you do cause a diversion, how is Harry supposed 
to talk to him?ʹ 
ʹUmbridgeʹs office,ʹ said Harry quietly. 
He had been thinking about it for a fortnight and could come up with no 
alternative. Umbridge herself had told him that the only fire that was not being 
watched was her own. 
ʹAre ‐ you ‐ insane?ʹ said Hermione in a hushed voice. 
Ron had lowered his leaflet on jobs in the Cultivated Fungus Trade and was 
watching the conversation warily. 
ʹI donʹt think so,ʹ said Harry, shrugging. 
ʹAnd how are you going to get in there in the first place?ʹ 
Harry was ready for this question. 
ʹSiriusʹs knife,ʹ he said. 
ʹExcuse me?ʹ 

ʹChristmas before last Sirius gave me a knife thatʹll open any lock,ʹ said Harry. ʹSo 
even if sheʹs bewitched the door so Alohomora wonʹt work, which I bet she has ‐ʹ 
ʹWhat do you think about this?ʹ Hermione demanded of Ron, and Harry was 
reminded irresistibly of Mrs Weasley appealing to her husband during Harryʹs 
first dinner in Grimmauld Place. 
ʹI dunno,ʹ said Ron, looking alarmed at being asked to give an opinion. ʹIf Harry 
wants to do it, itʹs up to him, isnʹt it?ʹ 
ʹSpoken like a true friend and Weasley,ʹ said Fred, clapping Ron hard on the 
back. ʹRight, then. Weʹre thinking of doing it tomorrow, just after lessons, 
because it should cause maximum impact if everybodyʹs in the corridors ‐ Harry, 
weʹll set it off in the east wing somewhere, draw her right away from her own 
office — I reckon we should be able to guarantee you, what, twenty minutes?ʹ he 
said, looking at George. 
ʹEasy,ʹ said George. 
ʹWhat sort of diversion is it?ʹ asked Ron. 
ʹYouʹll see, little broʹ,ʹ said Fred, as he and George got up again. ʹAt least, you will 
if you trot along to Gregory the Smarmyʹs corridor round about five oʹclock 
tomorrow.ʹ 
* 
Harry awoke very early the next day, feeling almost as anxious as he had done 
on the morning of his disciplinary hearing at the Ministry of Magic. It was not 
only the prospect of breaking into Umbridgeʹs office and using her fire to speak 
to Sirius that was making him feel nervous, though that was certainly bad 
enough; today also happened to be the first time Harry would be in close 
proximity to Snape since Snape had thrown him out of his office. 
After lying in bed for a while thinking about the day ahead, Harry got up very 
quietly and moved across to the window beside Nevilles bed, and stared out on a 
truly glorious morning. The sky was a clear, misty, opalescent blue. Directly 
ahead of him, Harry could see the towering beech tree below which his father 
had once tormented Snape. He was not sure what Sirius could possibly say to 
him that would make up for what he had seen in the Pensieve, but he was 
desperate to hear Siriusʹs own account of what had happened, to know of any 

mitigating factors there might have been, any excuse at all for his fatherʹs 
behaviour… 
Something caught Harryʹs attention: movement on the edge of the Forbidden 
Forest. Harry squinted into the sun and saw Hagrid emerging from between the 
trees. He seemed to be limping. As Harry watched, Hagrid staggered to the door 
of his cabin and disappeared inside it. Harry watched the cabin for several 
minutes. Hagrid did not emerge again, but smoke furled from the chimney, so 
Hagrid could not be so badly injured that he was unequal to stoking the fire. 
Harry turned away from the window, headed back to his trunk and started to 
dress. 
With the prospect of forcing entry into Umbridgeʹs office ahead, Harry had never 
expected the day to be a restful one, but he had not reckoned on Hermioneʹs 
almost continual attempts to dissuade him from what he was planning to do at 
five oʹclock. For the first time ever, she was at least as inattentive to Professor 
Binns in 
History of Magic as Harry and Ron were, keeping up a stream of whispered 
admonitions that Harry tried very hard to ignore. 
ʹ… and if she does catch you there, apart from being expelled, sheʹll be able to 
guess youʹve been talking to Snuffles and this time I expect sheʹll force you to 
drink Veritaserum and answer her questions…ʹ 
ʹHermione,ʹ said Ron in a low and indignant voice, ʹare you going to stop telling 
Harry off and listen to Binns, or am I going to have to take my own notes?ʹ 
ʹYou take notes for a change, it wonʹt kill you!ʹ 
By the time they reached the dungeons, neither Harry nor Ron was speaking to 
Hermione. Undeterred, she took advantage of their silence to maintain an 
uninterrupted flow of dire warnings, all uttered under her breath in a vehement 
hiss that caused Seamus to waste five whole minutes checking his cauldron for 
leaks. 
Snape, meanwhile, seemed to have decided to act as though Harry were 
invisible. Harry was, of course, well‐used to this tactic, as it was one of Uncle 
Vernonʹs favourites, and on the whole was grateful he had to suffer nothing 
worse. In fact, compared to what he usually had to endure from Snape in the 

way of taunts and snide remarks, he found the new approach something of an 
improvement, and was pleased to find that when left well alone, he was able to 
concoct an Invigoration Draught quite easily. At the end of the lesson he scooped 
some of the potion into a flask, corked it and took it up to Snapeʹs desk for 
marking, feeling that he might at last have scraped an ʹ£ʹ. 
He had just turned away when he heard a smashing noise. Malfoy gave a gleeful 
yell of laughter. Harry whipped around. His potion sample lay in pieces on the 
floor and Snape was surveying him with a look of gloating pleasure. 
ʹWhoops,ʹ he said softly. ʹAnother zero, then, Potter.ʹ 
Harry was too incensed to speak. He strode back to his cauldron, intending to fill 
another flask and force Snape to mark it, but saw to his horror that the rest of the 
contents had vanished. 
ʹIʹm sorry!ʹ said Hermione, with her hands over her mouth. ʹIʹm really sorry, 
Harry. I thought youʹd finished, so I cleared up!ʹ 
Harry could not bring himself to answer. When the bell rang, he hurried out of 
the dungeon without a backwards glance, and made sure that he found himself a 
seat between Neville and Seamus for lunch so that Hermione could not start 
nagging him again about using Umbridgeʹs office. 
He was in such a bad mood by the time he got to Divination that he had quite 
forgotten his careers appointment with Professor McGonagall, remembering it 
only when Ron asked him why he wasnʹt in her office. He hurtled back upstairs 
and arrived out of breath, only a few minutes late. 
ʹSorry, Professor,ʹ he panted, as he closed the door. ʹ1 forgot.ʹ 
ʹNo matter, Potter,ʹ she said briskly, but as she spoke, somebody else sniffed from 
the corner. Harry looked round. 
Professor Umbridge was sitting there, a clipboard on her knee, a fussy little pie‐
frill around her neck and a small, horribly smug smile on her face. 
ʹSit down, Potter,ʹ said Professor McGonagall tersely. Her hands shook slightly as 
she shuffled the many pamphlets littering her desk. 

Harry sat down with his back to Umbridge and did his best to pretend he could 
not hear the scratching of her quill on her clipboard. 
ʹWell, Potter, this meeting is to talk over any career ideas you might have, and to 
help you decide which subjects you should continue into the sixth and seventh 
years,ʹ said Professor McGonagall. ʹHave you had any thoughts about what you 
would like to do after you leave Hogwarts?ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ʹ said Harry. 
He was finding the scratching noise from behind him very distracting. 
ʹYes?ʹ Professor McGonagall prompted Harry. 
ʹWell, I thought of, maybe, being an Auror,ʹ Harry mumbled. 
ʹYouʹd need top grades for that,ʹ said Professor McGonagall, extracting a small, 
dark leaflet from under the mass on her desk and opening it. They ask for a 
minimum of five NEWTs, and nothing under ʺExceeds Expectationsʺ grade, I see. 
Then you would be required to undergo a stringent series of character and 
aptitude tests at the Auror office. Itʹs a difficult career path, Potter, they only take 
the best. In fact, I donʹt think anybody has been taken on in the last three years.ʹ 
At this moment, Professor Umbridge gave a very tiny cough, as though she was 
trying to see how quietly she could do it. Professor McGonagall ignored her. 
ʹYouʹll want to know which subjects you ought to take, 1 suppose?ʹ she went on, 
talking a little louder than before. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry. ʹDefence Against the Dark Arts, I suppose?ʹ 
ʹNaturally,ʹ said Professor McGonagall crisply. ʹI would also advise ‐ʹ 
Professor Umbridge gave another cough, a little more audible this time. 
Professor McGonagall closed her eyes for a moment, opened them again, and 
continued as though nothing had happened. 
ʹI would also advise Transfiguration, because Aurors frequently need to 
Transfigure or Untransfigure in their work. And I ought to tell you now, Potter, 
that I do not accept students into my NEWT classes unless they have achieved 
ʺExceeds Expectationsʺ or higher at Ordinary Wizarding Level. Iʹd say youʹre 

averaging ʺAcceptableʺ at the moment, so youʹll need to put in some good hard 
work before the exams to stand a chance of continuing. Then you ought to do 
Charms, always useful, and Potions. Yes, Potter, Potions,ʹ she added, with the 
merest flicker of a smile. ʹPoisons and antidotes are essential study for Aurors. 
And I must tell you that Professor Snape absolutely refuses to take students who 
get anything other than ʺOutstandingʺ in their OWLs, so ‐ʹ 
Professor Umbridge gave her most pronounced cough yet. 
ʹMay I offer you a cough drop, Dolores?ʹ Professor McGonagall asked curtly, 
without looking at Professor Umbridge. 
ʹOh, no, thank you very much,ʹ said Umbridge, with that simpering laugh Harry 
hated so much. ʹI just wondered whether I could make the teensiest interruption, 
Minerva?ʹ 
ʹI daresay youʹll find you can,ʹ said Professor McGonagall through tightly gritted 
teeth. 
ʹI was just wondering whether Mr Potter has quite the temperament for an 
Auror?ʹ said Professor Umbridge sweetly. 
ʹWere you?ʹ said Professor McGonagall haughtily. ʹWell, Potter,ʹ 
she continued, as though there had been no interruption, ʹif you are serious in 
this ambition, I would advise you to concentrate hard on bringing your 
Transfiguration and Potions up to scratch. I see Professor Flitwick has graded 
you between ʺAcceptableʺ and ʺExceeds Expectationsʺ for the last two years, so 
your Charmwork seems satisfactory. As for Defence Against the Dark Arts, your 
marks have been generally high, Professor Lupin in particular thought you ‐ are 
you quite sure you wouldnʹt like a cough drop, DoloresT
ʹOh, no need, thank you, Minerva; simpered Professor Umbridge, who had just 
coughed her loudest yet. ʹI was just concerned that you might not have Harrys 
most recent Defence Against the Dark Arts marks in front of you. Iʹm quite sure I 
slipped in a note.ʹ 
ʹWhat, this thing?ʹ said Professor McGonagall in a tone of revulsion, as she 
pulled a sheet of pink parchment from between the leaves of Harryʹs folder. She 
glanced down it, her eyebrows slightly raised, then placed it back into the folder 
without comment. 

ʹYes, as I was saying, Potter, Professor Lupin thought you showed a pronounced 
aptitude for the subject, and obviously for an Auror ‐ʹ 
ʹDid you not understand my note, Minerva?ʹ asked Professor Umbridge in 
honeyed tones, quite forgetting to cough. 
ʹOf course I understood it,ʹ said Professor McGonagall, her teeth clenched so 
tightly the words came out a little muffled. 
ʹWell, then, I am confused… Iʹm afraid I donʹt quite understand how you can 
give Mr Potter false hope that ‐ʹ 
ʹFalse hope?ʹ repeated Professor McGonagall, still refusing to look round at 
Professor Umbridge. ʹHe has achieved high marks in all his Defence Against the 
Dark Arts tests ‐ʹ 
ʹIʹm terribly sorry to have to contradict you, Minerva, but as you will see from 
my note, Harry has been achieving very poor results in his classes with me ‐ʹ 
ʹI should have made my meaning plainer,ʹ said Professor McGonagall, turning at 
last to look Umbridge directly in the eyes. ʹHe has achieved high marks in all 
Defence Against the Dark Arts tests set by a competent teacher.ʹ 
Professor Umbridgeʹs smile vanished as suddenly as a light bulb blowing. She 
sat back in her chair, turned a sheet on her clipboard and began scribbling very 
fast indeed, her bulging eyes rolling from side to side. Professor McGonagall 
turned back to Harry, her thin nostrils flared, her eyes burning. 
ʹAny questions, Potter?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry. ʹWhat sort of character and aptitude tests do the Ministry do on 
you, if you get enough NEWTs?ʹ 
ʹWell, youʹll need to demonstrate the ability to react well to pressure and so 
forth,ʹ said Professor McGonagall, ʹperseverance and dedication, because Auror 
training takes a further three years, not to mention very high skills in practical 
Defence. It will mean a lot more study even after youʹve left school, so unless 
youʹre prepared to ‐ʹ 

ʹI think youʹll also find,ʹ said Umbridge, her voice very cold now, ʹthat the 
Ministry looks into the records of those applying to be Aurors. Their criminal 
records.ʹ 
ʹ‐ unless youʹre prepared to take even more exams after Hogwarts, you should 
really look at another ‐ʹ 
ʹWhich means that this boy has as much chance of becoming an Auror as 
Dumbledore has of ever returning to this school.ʹ 
ʹA very good chance, then,ʹ said Professor McGonagall. 
ʹPotter has a criminal record,ʹ said Umbridge loudly. 
ʹPotter has been cleared of all charges,ʹ said McGonagall, even more loudly. 
Professor Umbridge stood up. She was so short that this did not make a great 
deal of difference, but her fussy, simpering demeanour had given place to a hard 
fury that made her broad, flabby face look oddly sinister. 
ʹPotter has no chance whatsoever of becoming an Auror!ʹ 
Professor McGonagall got to her feet, too, and in her case this was a much more 
impressive move; she towered over Professor Umbridge. 
ʹPotter,ʹ she said in ringing tones, ʹI will assist you to become an Auror if it is the 
last thing I do! If I have to coach you nightly, I will make sure you achieve the 
required results!ʹ 
The Minister for Magic will never employ Harry Potter!ʹ said Umbridge, her 
voice rising furiously. 
There may well be a new Minister for Magic by the time Potter is ready to join!ʹ 
shouted Professor McGonagall. 
ʹAha!ʹ shrieked Professor Umbridge, pointing a stubby finger at McGonagall. 
ʹYes! Yes, yes, yes! Of course! Thatʹs what you want, isnʹt it, Minerva 
McGonagall? You want Cornelius Fudge replaced by Albus Dumbledore! You 
think youʹll be where I am, donʹt you: Senior Undersecretary to the Minister and 
Headmistress to boot!ʹ 

ʹYou are raving,ʹ said Professor McGonagall, superbly disdainful. ʹPotter, that 
concludes our careers consultation.ʹ 
Harry swung his bag over his shoulder and hurried out of the room, not daring 
to look at Professor Umbridge. He could hear her and Professor McGonagall 
continuing to shout at each other all the way back along the corridor. 
Professor Umbridge was still breathing as though she had just run a race when 
she strode into their Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson that afternoon. 
ʹI hope youʹve thought better of what you were planning to do, Harry,ʹ Hermione 
whispered, the moment they had opened their books to ʹChapter Thirty‐four, 
Non‐Retaliation and Negotiationʹ. ʹUmbridge looks like sheʹs in a really bad 
mood already…ʹ 
Every now and then Umbridge shot glowering looks at Harry, who kept his head 
down, staring at Defensive Magical Theory, his eyes unfocused, thinking… 
He could just imagine Professor McGonagallʹs reaction if he was caught 
trespassing in Professor Umbridgeʹs office mere hours after she had vouched for 
him… there was nothing to stop him simply going back to Gryffindor Tower and 
hoping that some time during the next summer holidays he would have a chance 
to ask Sirius about the scene he had witnessed in the Pensieve… nothing, except 
that the thought of taking this sensible course of action made him feel as though 
a lead weight had dropped into his stomach… and then there was the matter of 
Fred and George, whose diversion was already planned, not to mention the knife 
Sirius had given him, which was currently residing in his schoolbag along with 
his fatherʹs old Invisibility Cloak. 
But the fact remained that if he was caught… 
ʹDumbledore sacrificed himself to keep you in school, Harry!ʹ whispered 
Hermione, raising her book to hide her face from 
Umbridge. ʹAnd if you get thrown out today it will all have been for nothing!ʹ 
He could abandon the plan and simply learn to live with the memory of what his 
father had done on a summerʹs day more than twenty years ago… 
And then he remembered Sirius in the fire upstairs in the Gryffindor common 
room… 

Youʹre less like your father than I thought… the risk wouldʹve been what made it fun for 
James…
But did he want to be like his father any more? 
ʹHarry, donʹt do it, please donʹt do it!ʹ Hermione said in anguished tones as the 
bell rang at the end of the class. 
He did not answer; he did not know what to do. 
Ron seemed determined to give neither his opinion nor his advice; he would not 
look at Harry, though when Hermione opened her mouth to try dissuading 
Harry some more, he said in a low voice, ʹGive it a rest, OK? He can make up his 
own mind.ʹ 
Harrys heart beat very fast as he left the classroom. He was halfway along the 
corridor outside when he heard the unmistake‐able sounds of a diversion going 
off in the distance. There were screams and yells reverberating from somewhere 
above them; people exiting the classrooms all around Harry were stopping in 
their tracks and looking up at the ceiling fearfully ‐ 
Umbridge came pelting out of her classroom as fast as her short legs would carry 
her. Pulling out her wand, she hurried off in the opposite direction: it was now 
or never. 
ʹHarry ‐ please!ʹ Hermione pleaded weakly. 
But he had made up his mind; hitching his bag more securely on to his shoulder, 
he set off at a run, weaving in and out of students now hurrying in the opposite 
direction to see what all the fuss was about in the east wing. 
Harry reached the corridor to Umbridgeʹs office and found it deserted. Dashing 
behind a large suit of armour whose helmet creaked around to watch him, he 
pulled open his bag, seized Siriuss knife and donned the Invisibility Cloak. He 
then crept slowly and carefully back out from behind the suit of armour and 
along the corridor until he reached Umbridgeʹs door. 
He inserted the blade of the magical knife into the crack around it and moved it 
gently up and down, then withdrew it. There was a tiny click, and the door 
swung open. He ducked inside the office, closed the door quickly behind him 
and looked around. 

Nothing was moving except the horrible kittens that were still frolicking on the 
wall plates above the confiscated broomsticks. 
Harry pulled off his Cloak and, striding over to the fireplace, found what he was 
looking for within seconds: a small box containing glittering Floo powder. 
He crouched down in front of the empty grate, his hands shaking. He had never 
done this before, though he thought he knew how it must work. Sticking his 
head into the fireplace, he took a large pinch of powder and dropped it on to the 
logs stacked neatly beneath him. They exploded at once into emerald green 
flames. 
ʹNumber twelve, Grimmauld Place!ʹ Harry said loudly and clearly. 
It was one of the most curious sensations he had ever experienced. He had 
travelled by Floo powder before, of course, but then it had been his entire body 
that had spun around and around in the flames through the network of 
wizarding fireplaces that stretched over the country. This time, his knees 
remained firm upon the cold floor of Umbridgeʹs office, and only his head 
hurtled through the emerald fire… 
And then, as abruptly as it had begun, the spinning stopped. Feeling rather sick 
and as though he were wearing an exceptionally hot muffler around his head, 
Harry opened his eyes to find that he was looking up out of the kitchen fireplace 
at the long, wooden table, where a man sat poring over a piece of parchment. 
ʹSirius?ʹ 
The man jumped and looked around. It was not Sirius, but Lupin. 
ʹHarry!ʹ he said, looking thoroughly shocked. ʹWhat are you ‐whatʹs happened, is 
everything all right?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry. ʹI just wondered — I mean, I just fancied a ‐a chat with Sirius.ʹ 
ʹIʹll call him,ʹ said Lupin, getting to his feet, still looking perplexed, ʹhe went 
upstairs to look for Kreacher, he seems to be hiding in the attic again…ʹ 
And Harry saw Lupin hurry out of the kitchen. Now he was left with nothing to 
look at but the chair and table legs. He wondered why Sirius had never 
mentioned how very uncomfortable it was to speak out of the fire; his knees 

were already objecting painfully to their prolonged contact with Umbridgeʹs 
hard stone floor. 
Lupin returned with Sirius at his heels moments later. 
ʹWhat is it?ʹ said Sirius urgently, sweeping his long dark hair out of his eyes and 
dropping to the ground in front of the fire, so that he and Harry were on a level. 
Lupin knelt down too, looking very concerned. ʹAre you all right? Do you need 
help?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Harry, ʹitʹs nothing like that… I just wanted to talk… about my dad.ʹ 
They exchanged a look of great surprise, but Harry did not have time to feel 
awkward or embarrassed; his knees were becoming sorer by the second and he 
guessed five minutes had already passed from the start of the diversion; George 
had only guaranteed him twenty. He therefore plunged immediately into the 
story of what he had seen in the Pensieve. 
When he had finished, neither Sirius nor Lupin spoke for a moment. Then Lupin 
said quietly, ʹI wouldnʹt like you to judge your father on what you saw there, 
Harry. He was only fifteen ‐ʹ 
ʹIʹm fifteen!ʹ said Harry heatedly. 
ʹLook, Harryʹ said Sirius placatingly, ʹJames and Snape hated each other from the 
moment they set eyes on each other, it was just one of those things, you can 
understand that, canʹt you? I think James was everything Snape wanted to be ‐ he 
was popular, he was good at Quidditch ‐ good at pretty much everything. And 
Snape was just this little oddball who was up to his eyes in the Dark Arts, and 
James ‐ whatever else he may have appeared to you, Harry ‐ always hated the 
Dark Arts.ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, ʹbut he just attacked Snape for no good reason, just because ‐ 
well, just because you said you were bored,ʹ he finished, with a slightly 
apologetic note in his voice. 
ʹIʹm not proud of it,ʹ said Sirius quickly. 
Lupin looked sideways at Sirius, then said, ʹLook, Harry, what youʹve got to 
understand is that your father and Sirius were the best in the school at whatever 

they did ‐ everyone thought they were the height of cool ‐ if they sometimes got a 
bit carried away ‐ʹ 
ʹIf we were sometimes arrogant little berks, you mean,ʹ said Sirius. 
Lupin smiled. 
ʹHe kept messing up his hair,ʹ said Harry in a pained voice. 
Sirius and Lupin laughed. 
ʹIʹd forgotten he used to do that,ʹ said Sirius affectionately. 
ʹWas he playing with the Snitch?ʹ said Lupin eagerly. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, watching uncomprehendingly as Sirius and Lupin beamed 
reminiscently. ʹWell… I thought he was a bit of an idiot.ʹ 
ʹOf course he was a bit of an idiot!ʹ said Sirius bracingly, ʹwe were all idiots! Well 
‐ not Moony so much,ʹ he said fairly, looking at Lupin. 
But Lupin shook his head. ʹDid I ever tell you to lay off Snape?ʹ he said. ʹDid I 
ever have the guts to tell you I thought you were out of order?ʹ 
ʹYeah, well,ʹ said Sirius, ʹyou made us feel ashamed of ourselves sometimes… 
that was something…ʺ 
ʹAnd,ʹ said Harry doggedly, determined to say everything that was on his mind 
now he was here, ʹhe kept looking over at the girls by the lake, hoping they were 
watching him!ʹ 
ʹOh, well, he always made a fool of himself whenever Lily was around,ʹ said 
Sirius, shrugging, ʹhe couldnʹt stop himself showing off whenever he got near 
her.ʹ 
ʹHow come she married him?ʹ Harry asked miserably. ʹShe hated him!ʹ 
ʹNah, she didnʹt,ʹ said Sirius. 
ʹShe started going out with him in seventh year,ʹ said Lupin. 
ʹOnce James had deflated his head a bit,ʹ said Sirius. 

ʹAnd stopped hexing people just for the fun of it,ʹ said Lupin. 
ʹEven Snape?ʹ said Harry. 
Well,ʹ said Lupin slowly, ʹSnape was a special case. I mean, he never lost an 
opportunity to curse James so you couldnʹt really expect James to take that lying 
down, could you?ʹ 
ʹAnd my mum was OK with that?ʹ 
ʹShe didnʹt know too much about it, to tell you the truth,ʹ said Sirius. ʹ1 mean, 
James didnʹt take Snape on dates with her and jinx him in front of her, did he?ʹ 
Sirius frowned at Harry, who was still looking unconvinced. 
ʹLook,ʹ he said, ʹyour father was the best friend I ever had and he was a good 
person. A lot of people are idiots at the age of fifteen. He grew out of it.ʹ 
ʹYeah, OK,ʹ said Harry heavily. ʹI just never thought Iʹd feel sorry for Snape.ʹ 
ʹNow you mention it,ʹ said Lupin, a faint crease between his eyebrows, ʹhow did 
Snape react when he found youʹd seen all this?ʹ 
ʹHe told me heʹd never teach me Occlumency again,ʹ said Harry indifferently, 
ʹlike thatʹs a big disappoint—ʹ 
ʹHe WHAT?ʹ shouted Sirius, causing Harry to jump and inhale a mouthful of 
ashes. 
ʹAre you serious, Harry?ʹ said Lupin quickly. ʹHeʹs stopped giving you lessons?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, surprised at what he considered a great over‐reaction. ʹBut itʹs 
OK, I donʹt care, itʹs a bit of a relief to tell you the ‐ʹ 
ʹIʹm coming up there to have a word with Snape!ʹ said Sirius forcefully, and he 
actually made to stand up, but Lupin wrenched him back down again. 
ʹIf anyoneʹs going to tell Snape it will be me!ʹ he said firmly. ʹBut Harry, first of 
all, youʹre to go back to Snape and tell him that on no account is he to stop giving 
you lessons — when Dumbledore hears ‐ʹ 

ʹI canʹt tell him that, heʹd kill me!ʹ said Harry, outraged. ʹYou didnʹt see him when 
we got out of the Pensieve.ʹ 
ʹHarry there is nothing so important as you learning Occlumency!ʹ said Lupin 
sternly. ʹDo you understand me? Nothing!ʹ 
ʹOK, OK,ʹ said Harry, thoroughly discomposed, not to mention annoyed. Til… Iʹll 
try and say something to him… but it wonʹt be‐ʹ 
He fell silent. He could hear distant footsteps. 
ʹIs that Kreacher coming downstairs?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Sirius, glancing behind him. ʹIt must be somebody your end.ʹ 
Harrys heart skipped several beats. 
Iʹd better go!ʹ he said hastily and pulled his head backwards out of the 
Grimmauld Place fire. For a moment his head seemed to be revolving on his 
shoulders, then he found himself kneeling in front of Umbridgeʹs fire with it 
firmly back on and watching the emerald flames flicker and die. 
ʹQuickly, quickly!ʹ he heard a wheezy voice mutter right outside the office door. 
ʹAh, sheʹs left it open ‐ʹ 
Harry dived for the Invisibility Cloak and had just managed to pull it back over 
himself when Filch burst into the office. He looked absolutely delighted about 
something and was talking to himself feverishly as he crossed the room, pulled 
open a drawer in Umbridgeʹs desk and began rifling through the papers inside it. 
ʹApproval for Whipping… Approval for Whipping… I can do it at last… theyʹve 
had it coming to them for years…ʹ 
He pulled out a piece of parchment, kissed it, then shuffled rapidly back out of 
the door, clutching it to his chest. 
Harry leapt to his feet and, making sure he had his bag and that the Invisibility 
Cloak was completely covering him, he wrenched open the door and hurried out 
of the office after Filch, who was hobbling along faster than Harry had ever seen 
him go. 

One landing down from Umbridgeʹs office, Harry thought it was safe to become 
visible again. He pulled off the Cloak, shoved it in his bag and hurried onwards. 
There was a great deal of shouting and movement coming from the Entrance 
Hall. He ran down the marble staircase and found what looked like most of the 
school assembled there. 
It was just like the night when Trelawney had been sacked. Students were 
standing all around the walls in a great ring (some of them, Harry noticed, 
covered in a substance that looked very like Stinksap); teachers and ghosts were 
also in the crowd. Prominent among the onlookers were members of the 
Inquisitorial Squad, who were all looking exceptionally pleased with themselves, 
and Peeves, who was bobbing overhead, gazed down at Fred and George who 
stood in the middle of the floor with the unmistakeable look of two people who 
had just been cornered. 
ʹSo!ʹ said Umbridge triumphantly. Harry realised she was standing just a few 
stairs in front of him, once more looking down upon her prey. ʹSo ‐ you think it 
amusing to turn a school corridor into a swamp, do you?ʹ 
ʹPretty amusing, yeah,ʹ said Fred, looking up at her without the slightest sign of 
fear. 
Filch elbowed his way closer to Umbridge, almost crying with happiness. 
ʹIʹve got the form, Headmistress,ʹ he said hoarsely, waving the piece of 
parchment Harry had just seen him take from her desk. ʹIʹve got the form and 
Iʹve got the whips waiting… oh, let me do it now…ʺ 
ʹVery good, Argus,ʹ she said. ʹYou two,ʹ she went on, gazing down at Fred and 
George, ʹare about to learn what happens to wrongdoers in my school.ʹ 
ʹYou know what?ʹ said Fred. ʹI donʹt think we are.ʹ 
He turned to his twin. 
ʹGeorge,ʹ said Fred, ʹI think weʹve outgrown full‐time education.ʹ 
ʹYeah, Iʹve been feeling that way myself,ʹ said George lightly. 
Time to test our talents in the real world, dʹyou reckon?ʹ asked Fred. 

ʹDefinitely,ʹ said George. 
And before Umbridge could say a word, they raised their wands and said 
together: 
ʹAccio brooms!ʹ
Harry heard a loud crash somewhere in the distance. Looking to his left, he 
ducked just in time. Fred and Georgeʹs broomsticks, one still trailing the heavy 
chain and iron peg with which Umbridge had fastened them to the wall, were 
hurtling along the corridor towards their owners; they turned left, streaked 
down the stairs and stopped sharply in front of the twins, the chain clattering 
loudly on the flagged stone floor. 
ʹWe wonʹt be seeing you,ʹ Fred told Professor Umbridge, swinging his leg over 
his broomstick. 
ʹYeah, donʹt bother to keep in touch,ʹ said George, mounting his own. 
Fred looked around at the assembled students, at the silent, watchful crowd. 
ʹIf anyone fancies buying a Portable Swamp, as demonstrated upstairs, come to 
number ninety‐three, Diagon Alley ‐ Weasleysʹ Wizarding Wheezes,ʹ he said in a 
loud voice. ʹOur new premises!ʹ 
ʹSpecial discounts to Hogwarts students who swear theyʹre going to use our 
products to get rid of this old bat,ʹ added George, pointing at Professor 
Umbridge. 
ʹSTOP THEM!ʹ shrieked Umbridge, but it was too late. As the Inquisitorial Squad 
closed in, Fred and George kicked off from the floor, shooting fifteen feet into the 
air, the iron peg swinging dangerously below. Fred looked across the hall at the 
poltergeist bobbing on his level above the crowd. 
ʹGive her hell from us, Peeves.ʹ 
And Peeves, who Harry had never seen take an order from a student before, 
swept his belled hat from his head and sprang to a salute as Fred and George 
wheeled about to tumultuous applause from the students below and sped out of 
the open front doors into the glorious sunset. 

just a few stairs in front of him, once more looking down upon her prey. ʹSo ‐ you 
think it amusing to turn a school corridor into a swamp, do you?ʹ 
ʹPretty amusing, yeah,ʹ said Fred, looking up at her without the slightest sign of 
fear. 
Filch elbowed his way closer to Umbridge, almost crying with happiness. 
ʹIʹve got the form, Headmistress,ʹ he said hoarsely, waving the piece of 
parchment Harry had just seen him take from her desk. ʹIʹve got the form and 
Iʹve got the whips waiting… oh, let me do it now 
ʹVery good, Argus,ʹ she said. ʹYou two,ʹ she went on, gazing down at Fred and 
George, ʹare about to learn what happens to wrongdoers in my school.ʹ 
ʹYou know what?ʹ said Fred. ʹI donʹt think we are.ʹ 
He turned to his twin. 
ʹGeorge,ʹ said Fred, ʹI think weʹve outgrown full‐time education.ʹ 
ʹYeah, Iʹve been feeling that way myself,ʹ said George lightly. 
Time to test our talents in the real world, dʹyou reckon?ʹ asked Fred. 
ʹDefinitely,ʹ said George. 
And before Umbridge could say a word, they raised their wands and said 
together: 
ʹAccio brooms!ʹ
Harry heard a loud crash somewhere in the distance. Looking to his left, he 
ducked just in time. Fred and Georgeʹs broomsticks, one still trailing the heavy 
chain and iron peg with which Umbridge had fastened them to the wall, were 
hurtling along the corridor towards their owners; they turned left, streaked 
down the stairs and stopped sharply in front of the twins, the chain clattering 
loudly on the flagged stone floor. 
ʹWe wonʹt be seeing you,ʹ Fred told Professor Umbridge, swinging his leg over 
his broomstick. 

ʹYeah, donʹt bother to keep in touch,ʹ said George, mounting his own. 
Fred looked around at the assembled students, at the silent, watchful crowd. 
ʹIf anyone fancies buying a Portable Swamp, as demonstrated upstairs, come to 
number ninety‐three, Diagon Alley ‐ Weasleysʹ Wizarding Wheezes,ʹ he said in a 
loud voice. ʹOur new premises!ʹ 
ʹSpecial discounts to Hogwarts students who swear theyʹre going to use our 
products to get rid of this old bat,ʹ added George, pointing at Professor 
Umbridge. 
ʹSTOP THEM!ʹ shrieked Umbridge, but it was too late. As the Inquisitorial Squad 
closed in, Fred and George kicked off from the floor, shooting fifteen feet into the 
air, the iron peg swinging dangerously below. Fred looked across the hall at the 
poltergeist bobbing on his level above the crowd. 
ʹGive her hell from us, Peeves.ʹ 
And Peeves, who Harry had never seen take an order from a student before, 
swept his belled hat from his head and sprang to a salute as Fred and George 
wheeled about to tumultuous applause from the students below and sped out of 
the open front doors into the glorious sunset. 
— CHAPTER THIRTY — 
Grawp 
The story of Fred and Georgeʹs flight to freedom was retold so often over the 
next few days that Harry could tell it would soon become the stuff of Hogwarts 
legend: within a week, even those who had been eye‐witnesses were half‐
convinced they had seen the twins dive‐bomb Umbridge on their brooms and 
pelt her with Dungbombs before zooming out of the doors. In the immediate 
aftermath of their departure there was a great wave of talk about copying them. 
Harry frequently heard students saying things like, ʹHonestly some days I just 
feel like jumping on my broom and leaving this place,ʹ or else, ʹOne more lesson 
like that and 1 might just do a Weasley.ʹ 
Fred and George had made sure nobody was likely to forget them too soon. For 
one thing, they had not left instructions on how to remove the swamp that now 
filled the corridor on the fifth floor of the east wing. Umbridge and Filch had 

been observed trying different means of removing it but without success. 
Eventually the area was roped off and Filch, gnashing his teeth furiously, was 
given the task of punting students across it to their classrooms. Harry was certain 
that teachers like McGonagall or Flitwick could have removed the swamp in an 
instant but, just as in the case of Fred and Georges Wildfire Whiz‐bangs, they 
seemed to prefer to watch Umbridge struggle. 
Then there were the two large broom‐shaped holes in Umbridgeʹs office door, 
through which Fred and Georgeʹs Cleansweeps had smashed to rejoin their 
masters. Filch fitted a new door and removed Harryʹs Firebolt to the dungeons 
where, it was rumoured, Umbridge had set an armed security troll to guard it. 
However, her troubles were far from over. 
Inspired by Fred and Georgeʹs example, a great number of students were now 
vying for the newly vacant positions of Troublemakers‐in‐Chief. In spite of the 
new door, somebody managed to slip a hairy‐snouted Niffler into Umbridgeʹs 
office, which promptly tore the place apart in its search for shiny objects, leapt on 
Umbridge when she entered and tried to gnaw the rings off her stubby fingers. 
Dungbombs and Stink Pellets were dropped so frequently in the corridors that it 
became the new fashion for students to perform Bubble‐Head Charms on 
themselves before leaving lessons, which ensured them a supply of fresh air, 
even though it gave them all the peculiar appearance of wearing upside‐down 
goldfish bowls on their heads. 
Filch prowled the corridors with a horsewhip ready in his hands, desperate to 
catch miscreants, but the problem was that there were now so many of them he 
never knew which way to turn. The Inquisitorial Squad was attempting to help 
him, but odd things kept happening to its members. Warrington of the Slytherin 
Quidditch team reported to the hospital wing with a horrible skin complaint that 
made him look as though he had been coated in cornflakes; Pansy Parkinson, to 
Hermiones delight, missed all her lessons the following day as she had sprouted 
antlers. 
Meanwhile, it became clear just how many Skiving Snackboxes Fred and George 
had managed to sell before leaving Hogwarts. Umbridge only had to enter her 
classroom for the students assembled there to faint, vomit, develop dangerous 
fevers or else spout blood from both nostrils. Shrieking with rage and frustration, 
she attempted to trace the mysterious symptoms to their source, but the students 
told her stubbornly they were suffering from ʹUmbridge ‐itisʹ. After putting four 
successive classes in detention and failing to discover their secret, she was forced 

to give up and allow the bleeding, swooning, sweating and vomiting students to 
leave her classes in droves. 
But not even the users of the Snackboxes could compete with that master of 
chaos, Peeves, who seemed to have taken Fredʹs parting words deeply to heart. 
Cackling madly, he soared through the school, upending tables, bursting out of 
blackboards, toppling statues and vases; twice he shut Mrs Norris inside a suit of 
armour, from which she was rescued, yowling loudly, by the furious caretaker. 
Peeves smashed lanterns and snuffed out candles, juggled burning torches over 
the heads of screaming students, caused neatly stacked piles of parchment to 
topple into fires or out of windows; flooded the second floor when he pulled off 
all the taps in the bathrooms, dropped a bag of tarantulas in the middle of the 
Great Hall during breakfast and, whenever he fancied a break, spent hours at a 
time floating along after Umbridge and blowing loud raspberries every time she 
spoke. 
None of the staff but Filch seemed to be stirring themselves to help her. Indeed, a 
week after Fred and Georgeʹs departure Harry witnessed Professor McGonagall 
walking right past Peeves, who was determinedly loosening a crystal chandelier, 
and could have sworn he heard her tell the poltergeist out of the corner of her 
mouth, ʹIt unscrews the other way.ʹ 
To cap matters, Montague had still not recovered from his sojourn in the toilet; 
he remained confused and disorientated and his parents were to be observed one 
Tuesday morning striding up the front drive, looking extremely angry. 
ʹShould we say something?ʹ said Hermione in a worried voice, pressing her 
cheek against the Charms window so that she could see Mr and Mrs Montague 
marching inside. ʹAbout what happened to him? In case it helps Madam Pomfrey 
cure him?ʹ 
ʹCourse not, heʹll recover,ʹ said Ron indifferently. 
ʹAnyway, more trouble for Umbridge, isnʹt it?ʹ said Harry in a satisfied voice. 
He and Ron both tapped the teacups they were supposed to be charming with 
their wands. Harryʹs spouted four very short legs that could not reach the desk 
and wriggled pointlessly in midair. Ronʹs grew four very thin spindly legs that 
hoisted the cup off the desk with great difficulty, trembled for a few seconds, 
then folded, causing the cup to crack into two. 

ʹReparo,ʹ said Hermione quickly, mending Ronʹs cup with a wave of her wand. 
Thatʹs all very well, but what if Montagueʹs permanently injured?ʹ 
ʹWho cares?ʹ said Ron irritably, while his teacup stood up drunk‐enly again, 
trembling violently at the knees. ʹMontague shouldnʹt have tried to take all those 
points from Gryffindor, should he? If you want to worry about anyone, 
Hermione, worry about me!ʹ 
ʹYou?ʹ she said, catching her teacup as it scampered happily away across the desk 
on four sturdy little willow‐patterned legs, and replacing it in front of her. ʹWhy 
should I be worried about you?ʹ 
ʹWhen Mumʹs next letter finally gets through Umbridgeʹs screening process,ʹ said 
Ron bitterly, now holding his cup up while its frail legs tried feebly to support its 
weight, ʹIʹm going to be in deep trouble. I wouldnʹt be surprised if sheʹs sent 
another Howler.ʹ 
ʹBut ‐ʹ 
ʹItʹll be my fault Fred and George left, you wait,ʹ said Ron darkly. ʹSheʹll say I 
shouldʹve stopped them leaving, I shouldʹve grabbed the ends of their brooms 
and hung on or something… yeah, itʹll be all my fault.ʹ 
ʹWell, if she does say that itʹll be very unfair, you couldnʹt have done anything! 
But Iʹm sure she wonʹt, I mean, if itʹs really true theyʹve got premises in Diagon 
Alley, they must have been planning this for ages.ʹ 
ʹYeah, but thatʹs another thing, how did they get premises?ʹ said Ron, hitting his 
teacup so hard with his wand that its legs collapsed again and it lay twitching 
before him. ʹItʹs a bit dodgy isnʹt it? Theyʹll need loads of Galleons to afford the 
rent on a place in Diagon Alley. Sheʹll want to know what theyʹve been up to, to 
get their hands on that sort of gold.ʹ 
ʹWell, yes, that occurred to me, too,ʹ said Hermione, allowing her teacup to jog in 
neat little circles around Harryʹs, whose stubby little legs were still unable to 
touch the desktop, ʹIʹve been wondering whether Mundungus has persuaded 
them to sell stolen goods or something awful.ʹ 
ʹHe hasnʹt,ʹ said Harry curtly. 
ʹHow do you know?ʹ said Ron and Hermione together. 

ʹBecause ‐ʹ Harry hesitated, but the moment to confess finally seemed to have 
come. There was no good to be gained in keeping silent if it meant anyone 
suspected that Fred and George were criminals. ʹBecause they got the gold from 
me. I gave them my Triwizard winnings last June.ʹ 
There was a shocked silence, then Hermioneʹs teacup jogged right over the edge 
of the desk and smashed on the floor. 
ʹOh, Harry, you didnʹt!ʹ she said. 
ʹYes, I did,ʹ said Harry mutinously. ʹAnd I donʹt regret it, either. I didnʹt need the 
gold and theyʹll be great at running a joke shop.ʹ 
ʹBut this is excellent!ʹ said Ron, looking thrilled. ʹItʹs all your fault, Harry ‐ Mum 
canʹt blame me at all! Can I tell her?ʹ 
ʹYeah, 1 suppose youʹd better,ʹ said Harry dully, ʺspecially if she thinks theyʹre 
receiving stolen cauldrons or something.ʹ 
Hermione said nothing at all for the rest of the lesson, but Harry had a shrewd 
suspicion that her self‐restraint was bound to crack before long. Sure enough, 
once they had left the castle for break and were standing around in the weak 
May sunshine, she fixed Harry with a beady eye and opened her mouth with a 
determined air. 
Harry interrupted her before she had even started. 
ʹItʹs no good nagging me, itʹs done,ʹ he said firmly. ʹFred and George have got the 
gold ‐ spent a good bit of it, too, by the sounds of it ‐ and I canʹt get it back from 
them and I donʹt want to. So save your breath, Hermione.ʹ 
ʹI wasnʹt going to say anything about Fred and George!ʹ she said in an injured 
voice. 
Ron snorted disbelievingly and Hermione threw him a very dirty look. 
ʹNo, I wasnʹt!ʹ she said angrily. ʹAs a matter of fact, I was going to ask Harry 
when heʹs going to go back to Snape and ask for more Occlumency lessons!ʹ 
Harryʹs heart sank. Once they had exhausted the subject of Fred and Georgeʹs 
dramatic departure, which admittedly had taken many hours, Ron and 

Hermione had wanted to hear news of Sirius. As Harry had not confided in them 
the reason he had wanted to talk to Sirius in the first place, it had been hard to 
think of what to tell them; he had ended up saying, truthfully, that Sirius wanted 
Harry to resume Occlumency lessons. He had been regretting this ever since; 
Hermione would not let the subject drop and kept reverting to it when Harry 
least expected it. 
ʹYou canʹt tell me youʹve stopped having funny dreams,ʹ Hermione said now, 
ʹbecause Ron told me you were muttering in your sleep again last night.ʹ 
Harry threw Ron a furious look. Ron had the grace to look ashamed of himself. 
ʹYou were only muttering a bit,ʹ he mumbled apologetically. ʹSomething about 
ʺjust a bit furtherʺ.ʹ 
ʹI dreamed I was watching you lot play Quidditch,ʹ Harry lied brutally. ʹI was 
trying to get you to stretch out a bit further to grab the Quaffle.ʹ 
Ronʹs ears went red. Harry felt a kind of vindictive pleasure; he had not, of 
course, dreamed anything of the sort. 
Last night, he had once again made the journey along the Department of 
Mysteries corridor. He had passed through the circular room, then the room full 
of clicking and dancing light, until he found himself again inside that cavernous 
room full of shelves on which were ranged dusty glass spheres. 
He had hurried straight towards row number ninety‐seven, turned left and run 
along it… it had probably been then that he had spoken aloud… just a bit 
further… for he felt his conscious self struggling to wake… and before he had 
reached the end of the row, he had found himself lying in bed again, gazing up 
at the canopy of his four‐poster. 
ʹYou are trying to block your mind, arenʹt you?ʹ said Hermione, looking beadily 
at Harry. ʹYou are keeping going with your Occlumency?ʹ 
ʹOf course I am,ʹ said Harry, trying to sound as though this question was 
insulting, but not quite meeting her eye. The truth was he was so intensely 
curious about what was hidden in that room full of dusty orbs, that he was quite 
keen for the dreams to continue. 

The problem was that with just under a month to go until the exams and every 
free moment devoted to revision, his mind seemed so saturated with information 
when he went to bed he found it very difficult to get to sleep at all; and when he 
did, his overwrought brain presented him most nights with stupid dreams about 
the exams. He also suspected that part of his mind ‐ the part that often spoke in 
Hermioneʹs voice — now felt guilty on the occasions it strayed down that 
corridor ending in the black door, and sought to wake him before he could reach 
the journeys end. 
ʹYou know,ʹ said Ron, whose ears were still flaming red, ʹif Montague doesnʹt 
recover before Slytherin play Hufflepuff, we might be in with a chance of 
winning the Cup.ʹ 
ʹYeah, Iʹsʹpose so,ʹ said Harry, glad of a change of subject. 
ʹI mean, weʹve won one, lost one ‐ if Slytherin lose to Hufflepuff next Saturday ‐ʹ 
ʹYeah, thatʹs right,ʹ said Harry, losing track of what he was agreeing to. Cho 
Chang had just walked across the courtyard, determinedly not looking at him. 
* 
The final match of the Quidditch season, Gryffindor versus Ravenclaw, was to 
take place on the last weekend of May. Although Slytherin had been narrowly 
defeated by Hufflepuff in their last match, Gryffindor were not daring to hope 
for victory, due mainly (though of course nobody said it to him) to Ronʹs 
abysmal goal‐keeping record. He, however, seemed to have found a new 
optimism. 
ʹI mean, 1 canʹt get any worse, can I?ʹ he told Harry and Hermione grimly over 
breakfast on the morning of the match. ʹNothing to lose now, is there?ʹ 
ʹYou know,ʹ said Hermione, as she and Harry walked down to the pitch a little 
later in the midst of a very excitable crowd, ʹI think Ron might do better without 
Fred and George around. They never exactly gave him a lot of confidence.ʹ 
Luna Lovegood overtook them with what appeared to be a live eagle perched on 
top of her head. 

ʹOh, gosh, I forgot!ʹ said Hermione, watching the eagle flapping its wings as 
Luna walked serenely past a group of cackling and pointing Slytherins. ʹCho will 
be playing, wonʹt she?ʹ 
Harry, who had not forgotten this, merely grunted. 
They found seats in the topmost row of the stands. It was a fine, clear day; Ron 
could not wish for better, and Harry found himself hoping against hope that Ron 
would not give the Slytherins cause for more rousing choruses of ʹWeasley is our 
Kingʹ. 
Lee Jordan, who had been very dispirited since Fred and George had left, was 
commentating as usual. As the teams zoomed out on to the pitch he named the 
players with something less than his usual gusto. 
ʹ… Bradley… Davies… Chang,ʹ he said, and Harry felt his stomach perform, less 
of a back flip, more a feeble lurch as Cho walked out on to the pitch, her shiny 
black hair rippling in the slight breeze. He was not sure what he wanted to 
happen any more, except that he could not stand any more rows. Even the sight 
of her chatting animatedly to Roger Davies as they prepared to mount their 
brooms caused him only a slight twinge of jealousy. 
ʹAnd theyʹre off!ʹ said Lee. ʹAnd Davies takes the Quaffle immediately, 
Ravenclaw Captain Davies with the Quaffle, he dodges Johnson, he dodges Bell, 
he dodges Spinnet as well… heʹs going straight for goal! Heʹs going to shoot ‐ 
and ‐ and ‐ʹ Lee swore very loudly. ʹAnd heʹs scored.ʹ 
Harry and Hermione groaned with the rest of the Gryffindors. Predictably, 
horribly, the Slytherins on the other side of the stands began to sing: 
ʺWeasley cannot save a thing He cannot block a single ring…ʹ
ʹHarryʹ said a hoarse voice in Harrys ear. ʹHermione…ʹ 
Harry looked round and saw Hagridʹs enormous bearded face sticking between 
the seats. Apparently, he had squeezed his way all along the row behind, for the 
first‐ and second‐years he had just passed had a ruffled, flattened look about 
them. For some reason, Hagrid was bent double as though anxious not to be 
seen, though he was still at least four feet taller than everybody else. 

ʹListen,ʹ he whispered, ʹcan yeh come with me? Now? While evʹryoneʹs watchinʹ 
the match?ʹ 
ʹEr… canʹt it wait, Hagrid?ʹ asked Harry. Till the match is over?ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹNo, Harry, itʹs gotta be now… while evʹryoneʹs lookinʹ the 
other way… please?ʹ 
Hagridʹs nose was gently dripping blood. His eyes were both blackened. Harry 
had not seen him this close‐up since his return to the school; he looked utterly 
woebegone. 
ʹCourse,ʹ said Harry at once, ʹcourse weʹll come.ʹ 
He and Hermione edged back along their row of seats, causing much grumbling 
among the students who had to stand up for them. The people in Hagridʹs row 
were not complaining, merely attempting to make themselves as small as 
possible. 
ʹI ʹppreciate this, you two, I really do,ʹ said Hagrid as they reached the stairs. He 
kept looking around nervously as they descended towards the lawn below. ʹI jusʹ 
hope she doesnʹ notice us goinʹ.ʹ 
ʹYou mean Umbridge?ʹ said Harry. ʹShe wonʹt, sheʹs got her whole Inquisitorial 
Squad sitting with her, didnʹt you see? She must be expecting trouble at the 
match.ʹ 
ʹYeah, well, a bit oʹ trouble wouldnʹ hurt,ʹ said Hagrid, pausing to peer around 
the edge of the stands to make sure the stretch of lawn between there and his 
cabin was deserted. ʹGive us more time.ʹ 
ʹWhat is it, Hagrid?ʹ said Hermione, looking up at him with a concerned 
expression on her face as they hurried across the grass towards the edge of the 
Forest. 
ʹYeh ‐ yehʹll see in a moʹ,ʹ said Hagrid, looking over his shoulder as a great roar 
rose from the stands behind them. ʹHey ‐ did someone jusʹ score?ʹ 
ʹItʹll be Ravenclaw,ʹ said Harry heavily. 
ʹGood… good…ʹ said Hagrid distractedly. Thaʹs good…ʹ 

They had to jog to keep up with him as he strode across the lawn, looking 
around with every other step. When they reached his cabin, Hermione turned 
automatically left towards the front door. Hagrid, however, walked straight past 
it into the shade of the trees on the outermost edge of the Forest, where he picked 
up a crossbow that was leaning against a tree. When he realised they were no 
longer with him, he turned. 
ʹWeʹre goinʹ in here,ʹ he said, jerking his shaggy head behind him. 
ʹInto the Forest?ʹ said Hermione, perplexed. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹCʹmon now, quick, before weʹre spotted!ʹ 
Harry and Hermione looked at each other, then ducked into the cover of the trees 
behind Hagrid, who was already striding away from them into the green gloom, 
his crossbow over his arm. Harry and Hermione ran to catch up with him. 
ʹHagrid, why are you armed?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹJusʹ a precaution,ʹ said Hagrid, shrugging his massive shoulders. 
ʹYou didnʹt bring your crossbow the day you showed us the Thestrals,ʹ said 
Hermione timidly. 
ʹNah, well, we werenʹ goinʹ in so far then,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹAnʹ anyway, thaʹ was 
before Firenze left the Forest, wasnʹ it?ʹ 
ʹWhy does Firenze leaving make a difference?ʹ asked Hermione curiously. 
ʹCause the other centaurs are good anʹ riled at me, thaʹs why,ʹ said Hagrid 
quietly, glancing around. ʹThey used ter be ‐ well, yeh couldnʹ call ʹem friendly — 
but we got on all righʹ. Kept ʹemselves to ʹemselves, buʹ always turned up if I 
wanted a word. Not any more.ʹ 
He sighed deeply. 
ʹFirenze said theyʹre angry because he went to work for Dumbledore,ʹ Harry said, 
tripping on a protruding root because he was busy watching Hagridʹs profile. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Hagrid heavily. ʹWell, angry doesnʹ cover it. Ruddy livid. If 1 hadnʹ 
stepped in, 1 reckon theyʹdʹve kicked Firenze ter death ‐ʹ 

ʹThey attacked him?ʹ said Hermione, sounding shocked. 
ʹYep,ʹ said Hagrid gruffly, forcing his way through several low‐hanging 
branches. ʹHe had half the herd on to him.ʹ 
ʹAnd you stopped it?ʹ said Harry, amazed and impressed. ʹBy yourself?ʹ 
ʹCourse I did, couldnʹt stand by anʹ watch ʹem kill ʹim, could I?ʹ said Hagrid. 
ʹLucky I was passinʹ, really… anʹ Iʹdʹve thought Firenze mighta remembered thaʹ 
before he started sendinʹ me stupid warninʹs!ʹ he added hotly and unexpectedly. 
Harry and Hermione looked at each other, startled, but Hagrid, scowling, did not 
elaborate., 
ʹAnyway,ʹ he said, breathing a little more heavily than ‐usual, ʹsince then the 
other centaursʹve bin livid with me, anʹ the trouble is theyʹve got a lot of 
influence in the Forest… cleverest creatures in here.ʹ 
ʹIs that why weʹre here, Hagrid?ʹ asked Hermione. ʹThe centaurs?ʹ 
ʹAh, no,ʹ said Hagrid, shaking his head dismissively, ʹno, itʹs not them. Well, oʹ 
course, they could complicate the problem, yeah… but yehʹll see what I mean in 
a bit.ʹ 
On this incomprehensible note he fell silent and forged a little ahead, taking one 
stride for every three of theirs, so that they had great trouble keeping up with 
him. 
The path was becoming increasingly overgrown and the trees grew so closely 
together as they walked further and further into the Forest that it was as dark as 
dusk. They were soon a long way past the clearing where Hagrid had shown 
them the Thestrals, but Harry felt no sense of unease until Hagrid stepped 
unexpectedly off the path and began wending his way in and out of trees 
towards the dark heart of the Forest. 
ʹHagrid!ʹ said Harry, fighting his way through thickly knotted brambles, over 
which Hagrid had stepped with ease, and remembering very vividly what had 
happened to him on the other occasion he had stepped off the Forest path. 
ʹWhere are we going?ʹ 

ʹBit further,ʹ said Hagrid over his shoulder. ʹCʹmon, Harry… we need ter keep 
together now.ʹ 
It was a great struggle to keep up with Hagrid, what with branches and thickets 
of thorn through which Hagrid marched as easily as if they were cobwebs, but 
which snagged Harry and Hermioneʹs robes, frequently entangling them so 
severely that they had to stop for minutes at a time to free themselves. Harryʹs 
arms and legs were soon covered in small cuts and scratches. They were so deep 
in the Forest now that sometimes all Harry could see of Hagrid in the gloom was 
a massive dark shape ahead of him. Any sound seemed threatening in the 
muffled silence. The breaking of a twig echoed loudly and the tiniest rustle of 
movement, even though it might have been made by an innocent sparrow, 
caused Harry to peer through the gloom for a culprit. It occurred to him that he 
had never managed to get this far into the Forest without meeting some kind of 
creature; their absence struck him as rather ominous. 
ʹHagrid, would it be all right if we lit our wands?ʹ said Hermione quietly. 
ʹEr… all righʹ,ʹ Hagrid whispered back. ʹIn fact ‐ʹ 
He stopped suddenly and turned around; Hermione walked right into him and 
was knocked over backwards. Harry caught her just before she hit the Forest 
floor. 
ʹMaybe we besʹ jusʹ stop fer a momenʹ, so I can… fill yeh in,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹBefore 
we geʹ there, like.ʹ 
ʹGood!ʹ said Hermione, as Harry set her back on her feet. They both murmured 
ʹLumos!ʹ and their wand‐tips ignited. Hagridʹs face swam through the gloom by 
the light of the two wavering beams and Harry saw again that he looked nervous 
and sad. 
ʹRighʹ,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹWell… see… the thing is…ʹ 
He took a great breath. 
ʹWell, thereʹs a good chance Iʹm goinʹ ter be gettinʹ the sack any day now,ʹ he said. 
Harry and Hermione looked at each other, then back at him. 

ʹBut youʹve lasted this long ‐ʹ Hermione said tentatively. ʹWhat makes you think ‐
ʹ 
ʹUmbridge reckons it was me that put thaʹ Niffler in her office.ʹ 
ʹAnd was it?ʹ said Harry, before he could stop himself. 
ʹNo, it ruddy well wasnʹ!ʹ said Hagrid indignantly. ʹOnʹy any‐thinʹ ter do with 
magical creatures anʹ she thinks itʹs got somethinʹ ter do with me. Yeh know sheʹs 
bin lookinʹ fer a chance ter get rid of me ever since I got back. I donʹ wanʹ ter go, 
oʹ course, but if it wasnʹ fer… well… the special circumstances Iʹm abouʹ ter 
explain to yeh, Iʹd leave righʹ now, before sheʹs goʹ the chance ter do it in front oʹ 
the whole school, like she did with Trelawney.ʹ 
Harry and Hermione both made noises of protest, but Hagrid overrode them 
with a wave of one of his enormous hands. 
ʹItʹs not the end oʹ the world, Iʹll be able ter help Dumbledore once Iʹm outta here, 
I can be useful ter the Order. Anʹ you lotʹll have Grubbly‐Plank, yehʹll ‐ yehʹll get 
through yer exams fine…ʺ 
His voice trembled and broke. 
ʹDonʹ worry abouʹ me,ʹ he said hastily, as Hermione made to pat his arm. He 
pulled his enormous spotted handkerchief from the pocket of his waistcoat and 
mopped his eyes with it. ʹLook, I wouldnʹ be tellinʹ yer this at all if I didnʹ have 
ter. See, if I go… well, I canʹ leave withouʹ… withouʹ tellinʹ someone… because 
Iʹll ‐ Iʹll need yeh two ter help me. Anʹ Ron, if heʹs willinʹ.ʹ 
ʹOf course weʹll help you,ʹ said Harry at once. ʹWhat do you want us to do?ʹ 
Hagrid gave a great sniff and patted Harry wordlessly on the shoulder with such 
force Harry was knocked sideways into a tree. 
ʹ1 knew yehʹd say yes,ʹ said Hagrid into his handkerchief, ʹbut I wonʹ… never… 
forget… well… cʹmon… jusʹ a little bit further through here… watch yerselves, 
now, thereʹs nettles…ʹ 
They walked on in silence for another fifteen minutes; Harry had opened his 
mouth to ask how much further they had to go when Hagrid threw out his right 
arm to signal that they should stop. 

ʹReally easyʹ he said softly. ʹVery quiet, now…ʹ 
They crept forwards and Harry saw that they were facing a large, smooth mound 
of earth nearly as tall as Hagrid that he thought, with a jolt of dread, was sure to 
be the lair of some enormous animal. Trees had been ripped up at the roots all 
around the mound, so that it stood on a bare patch of ground surrounded by 
heaps of trunks and boughs that formed a kind of fence or barricade, behind 
which Harry, Hermione and Hagrid now stood. 
ʹSleepinʹ,ʹ breathed Hagrid. 
Sure enough, Harry could hear a distant, rhythmic rumbling that sounded like a 
pair of enormous lungs at work. He glanced sideways at Hermione, who was 
gazing at the mound with her mouth slightly open. She looked utterly terrified. 
ʹHagrid,ʹ she said in a whisper barely audible over the sound of the sleeping 
creature, ʹwho is he?ʹ 
Harry found this an odd question… ʹWhat is it?ʹ was the one he had been 
planning on asking. 
ʹHagrid, you told us ‐ʹ said Hermione, her wand now shaking in her hand, ʹyou 
told us none of them wanted to come!ʹ 
Harry looked from her to Hagrid and then, as realisation hit him, he looked back 
at the mound with a small gasp of horror. 
The great mound of earth, on which he, Hermione and Hagrid could easily have 
stood, was moving slowly up and down in time with the deep, grunting 
breathing. It was not a mound at all. It was the curved back of what was clearly 
— 
ʹWell ‐ no ‐ he didnʹ want ter come,ʹ said Hagrid, sounding desperate. ʹBut I had 
ter bring him, Hermione, I had ter!ʹ 
ʹBut why?ʹ asked Hermione, who sounded as though she wanted to cry. ʹWhy ‐ 
what ‐ oh, Hagridr
ʹI knew if I jusʹ got him back,ʹ said Hagrid, sounding close to tears himself, ʹanʹ ‐ 
anʹ taught him a few manners ‐ Iʹd be able ter take him outside anʹ show evʹryone 
heʹs harmless!ʹ 

ʹHarmless!ʹ said Hermione shrilly, and Hagrid made frantic hushing noises with 
his hands as the enormous creature before them grunted loudly and shifted in its 
sleep. ʹHeʹs been hurting you all this time, hasnʹt he? Thatʹs why youʹve had all 
these injuries!ʹ 
ʹHe donʹ know his own strength!ʹ said Hagrid earnestly. ʹAnʹ heʹs gettinʹ better, 
heʹs not fightinʹ so much any more —ʹ 
ʹSo, this is why it took you two months to get home!ʹ said Hermione distractedly. 
ʹOh, Hagrid, why did you bring him back if he didnʹt want to come? Wouldnʹt he 
have been happier with his own people?ʹ 
They were all bullyinʹ him, Hermione, ʹcause heʹs so small!ʹ said Hagrid. 
ʹSmall?ʹ said Hermione. ʹSmall?ʹ 
ʹHermione, I couldnʹ leave him,ʹ said Hagrid, tears now trickling down his 
bruised face into his beard. ʹSee ‐ heʹs my brother!ʹ 
Hermione simply stared at him, her mouth open. 
ʹHagrid, when you say ʺbrotherʺ,ʹ said Harry slowly, ʹdo you mean —?ʹ 
ʹWell ‐ half‐brother,ʹ amended Hagrid. Turns put me mother took up with 
another giant when she left me dad, anʹ she went anʹ had Grawp here ‐ʹ 
ʹGrawp?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYeah… well, thaʹs what it sounds like when he says his name,ʹ said Hagrid 
anxiously. ʹHe donʹ speak a lot of English… Iʹve bin tryinʹ ter teach him… 
anyway, she donʹ seem ter have liked him much moreʹn she liked me. See, with 
giantesses, what counts is producinʹ good big kids, and heʹs always been a bit on 
the runty side fer a giant ‐ onʹy sixteen foot ‐ʹ 
ʹOh, yes, tiny!ʹ said Hermione, with a kind of hysterical sarcasm. ʹAbsolutely 
minuscule!ʹ 
ʹHe was beinʹ kicked arounʹ by all oʹ them ‐ I jusʹ couldnʹ leave him ‐ʹ 
ʹDid Madame Maxime want to bring him back?ʹ asked Harry. 

ʹShe ‐ well, she could see it was right importanʹ ter me,ʹ said Hagrid, twisting his 
enormous hands. ʹBuʹ ‐ buʹ she got a bit tired oʹ him after a while, I must admit… 
so we split up on the journey home… she promised not ter tell anyone, 
though…ʺ 
ʹHow on earth did you get him back without anyone noticing?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹWell, thaʹs why it took so long, see,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹCould onʹy travel by nighʹ anʹ 
through wild country anʹ stuff. Course, he covers the ground pretty well when he 
wants ter, but he kepʹ wantinʹ ter go back.ʹ 
ʹOh, Hagrid, why on earth didnʹt you let him!ʹ said Hermione, flopping down on 
to a ripped up tree and burying her face in her hands. ʹWhat do you think youʹre 
going to do with a violent giant who doesnʹt even want to be here!ʹ 
ʹWell, now ‐ ʺviolentʺ ‐ thaʹs a bit harsh,ʹ said Hagrid, still twisting his hands 
agitatedly. Til admit he mighta taken a couple oʹ swings at me when heʹs bin in a 
bad mood, but heʹs gettinʹ better, loads better, settlinʹ down well.ʹ 
ʹWhat are those ropes for, then?ʹ Harry asked. 
He had just noticed ropes thick as saplings stretching from around the trunks of 
the largest nearby trees towards the place where Grawp lay curled on the ground 
with his back to them. 
ʹYou have to keep him tied up?ʹ said Hermione faintly. 
ʹWell… yeah…ʹ said Hagrid, looking anxious. ʹSee ‐ itʹs like I say ‐ he doesnʹ 
really know ʹis own strength.ʹ 
Harry understood now why there had been such a suspicious lack of any other 
living creature in this part of the Forest. 
ʹSo, what is it you want Harry and Ron and me to do?ʹ Hermione asked 
apprehensively. 
ʹLook after him,ʹ said Hagrid croakily. ʹAfter Iʹm gone.ʹ 
Harry and Hermione exchanged miserable looks, Harry uncomfortably aware 
that he had already promised Hagrid that he would do whatever he asked. 

ʹWhat ‐ what does that involve, exactly?ʹ Hermione enquired. 
ʹNot food or anythinʹ!ʹ said Hagrid eagerly. ʹHe can get his own food, no 
problem. Birds anʹ deer anʹ stuff… no, itʹs company he needs. If I jusʹ knew 
someone was carryinʹ on tryinʹ ter help him a bit… teachinʹ him, yeh know.ʹ 
Harry said nothing, but turned to look back at the gigantic form lying asleep on 
the ground in front of them. Unlike Hagrid, who simply looked like an oversized 
human, Grawp looked strangely misshapen. What Harry had taken to be a vast 
mossy boulder to the left of the great earthen mound he now recognised as 
Grawpʹs head. It was much larger in proportion to the body than a human head, 
and was almost perfectly round and covered with tightly curling, close‐growing 
hair the colour of bracken. The rim of a single large, fleshy ear was visible on top 
of the head, which seemed to sit, rather like Uncle Vernonʹs, directly upon the 
shoulders with little or no neck in between. The back, under what looked like a 
dirty brownish smock comprised of animal skins sewn roughly together, was 
very broad; and as Grawp slept, it seemed to strain a little at the rough seams of 
the skins. The legs were curled up under the body. Harry could see the soles of 
enormous, filthy, bare feet, large as sledges, resting one on top of the other on the 
earthy Forest floor. 
ʹYou want us to teach him,ʹ Harry said in a hollow voice. He now understood 
what Firenzeʹs warning had meant. His attempt is not working. He would do better 
to abandon it. Of course, the other creatures who lived in the Forest would have 
heard Hagrids fruitless attempts to teach Grawp English. 
ʹYeah ‐ even if yeh jusʹ talk ter him a bit,ʹ said Hagrid hopefully. ʺCause I reckon, 
if he can talk ter people, heʹll understand more that we all like ʹim really, anʹ 
want ʹim ter stay.ʹ 
Harry looked at Hermione, who peered back at him from between the fingers 
over her face. 
ʹKind of makes you wish we had Norbert back, doesnʹt it?ʹ he said, and she gave 
a very shaky laugh. 
ʹYehʹll do it, then?ʹ said Hagrid, who did not seem to have caught what Harry 
had just said. 
ʹWeʹll…ʹ said Harry, already bound by his promise. ʹWeʹll try, Hagrid.ʹ 

ʹI knew I could count on yeh, Harry,ʹ Hagrid said, beaming in a very watery way 
and dabbing at his face with his handkerchief again. ʹAnʹ I donʹ wan1 yeh ter put 
yerself out too much, like… I know yehʹve got exams… if yeh could jusʹ nip 
down here in yer Invisibility Cloak maybe once a week anʹ have a little chat with 
ʹim. Iʹll wake ʹim up, then ‐ introduce yeh ‐ʹ 
ʹWha— no!ʹ said Hermione, jumping up. ʹHagrid, no, donʹt wake him, really, we 
donʹt need ‐ʹ 
But Hagrid had already stepped over the great tree trunk in front of them and 
was proceeding towards Grawp. When he was about ten feet away, he lifted a 
long, broken bough from the ground, smiled reassuringly over his shoulder at 
Harry and Hermione, then poked Grawp hard in the middle of the back with the 
end of the bough. 
The giant gave a roar that echoed around the silent Forest; birds in the treetops 
overhead rose twittering from their perches and soared away. In front of Harry 
and Hermione, meanwhile, the gigantic Grawp was rising from the ground, 
which shuddered as he placed an enormous hand upon it to push himself on to 
his knees. He turned his head to see who and what had disturbed him. 
ʹAll righʹ, Grawpy?ʹ said Hagrid, in a would‐be cheery voice, backing away with 
the long bough raised, ready to poke Grawp again. ʹHad a nice sleep, eh?ʹ 
Harry and Hermione retreated as far as they could while still keeping the giant 
within their sights. Grawp knelt between two trees he had not yet uprooted. 
They looked up into his startlingly huge face that resembled a grey full moon 
swimming in the gloom of the clearing. It was as though the features had been 
hewn on to a great stone ball. The nose was stubby and shapeless, the mouth 
lopsided and full of misshapen yellow teeth the size of half‐bricks; the eyes, 
small by giant standards, were a muddy greenish‐brown and just now were half‐
gummed together with sleep. Grawp raised dirty knuckles, each as big as a 
cricket ball, to his eyes, rubbed vigorously, then, without warning, pushed 
himself to his feet with surprising speed and agility. 
ʹOh my!ʹ Harry heard Hermione squeal, terrified, beside him. 
The trees to which the other ends of the ropes around Grawpʹs wrists and ankles 
were attached creaked ominously. He was, as 

Hagrid had said, at least sixteen feet tall. Gazing blearily around, Grawp reached 
out a hand the size of a beach umbrella, seized a birdʹs nest from the upper 
branches of a towering pine and turned it upside‐down with a roar of apparent 
displeasure that there was no bird in it; eggs fell like grenades towards the 
ground and Hagrid threw his arms over his head to protect himself. 
ʹAnyway, Grawpy,ʹ shouted Hagrid, looking up apprehensively in case of further 
falling eggs, ʹIʹve brought some friends ter meet yeh. Remember, I told yeh I 
might? Remember, when I said I might have ter go on a little trip anʹ leave them 
ter look after yeh fer a bit? Remember that, Grawpy?ʹ 
But Grawp merely gave another low roar; it was hard to say whether he was 
listening to Hagrid or whether he even recognised the sounds Hagrid was 
making as speech. He had now seized the top of the pine tree and was pulling it 
towards him, evidently for the simple pleasure of seeing how far it would spring 
back when he let go. 
ʹNow, Grawpy, donʹ do that!ʹ shouted Hagrid. ʹThaʹs how you ended up pullinʹ 
up the others ‐ʹ 
And sure enough, Harry could see the earth around the treeʹs roots beginning to 
crack. 
ʹI got company for yeh!ʹ Hagrid shouted. ʹCompany, see! Look down, yeh big 
buffoon, I brought yeh some friends!ʹ 
ʹOh, Hagrid, donʹt,ʹ moaned Hermione, but Hagrid had already raised the bough 
again and gave Grawpʹs knee a sharp poke. 
The giant let go of the top of the tree, which swayed alarmingly and deluged 
Hagrid with a rain of pine needles, and looked down. 
This,ʹ said Hagrid, hastening over to where Harry and Hermione stood, ʹis Harry, 
Grawp! Harry Potter! He mighʹ be cominʹ ter visit yeh if I have ter go away, 
understand?ʹ 
The giant had only just realised that Harry and Hermione were there. They 
watched, in great trepidation, as he lowered his huge boulder of a head so that 
he could peer blearily at them. 

ʹAnʹ this is Hermione, see? Her—ʹ Hagrid hesitated. Turning to Hermione, he 
said, ʹWould yeh mind if he called yeh Hermy, Hermione? Onʹy itʹs a difficult 
name fer him ter remember.ʹ 
ʹNo, not at all,ʹ squeaked Hermione. 
This is Hermy, Grawp! Anʹ sheʹs gonna be cominʹ anʹ all! Isʹnʹ thaʹ nice? Eh? Two 
friends fer yeh ter ‐ GRAWPY, NO!ʹ 
Grawpʹs hand had shot out of nowhere towards Hermione; Harry seized her and 
pulled her backwards behind the tree, so that Grawpʹs fist scraped the trunk but 
closed on thin air. 
ʹBAD BOY, GRAWPY!ʹ they heard Hagrid yelling, as Hermione clung to Harry 
behind the tree, shaking and whimpering. ʹVERY BAD BOY! YEH DONʹ GRAB ‐ 
OUCH!ʹ 
Harry poked his head out from around the trunk and saw Hagrid lying on his 
back, his hand over his nose. Grawp, apparently losing interest, had straightened 
up and was again engaged in pulling back the pine as far as it would go. 
ʹRighʹ,ʹ said Hagrid thickly, getting up with one hand pinching his bleeding nose 
and the other grasping his crossbow, ʹwell… there yeh are… yehʹve met him anʹ ‐ 
anʹ now heʹll know yeh when yeh come back. Yeah… well…ʹ 
He looked up at Grawp, who was now pulling back the pine with an expression 
of detached pleasure on his boulderish face; the roots were creaking as he ripped 
them away from the ground. 
ʹWell, I reckon thaʹs enough fer one day,ʹ said Hagrid. ʹWeʹll ‐er ‐ weʹll go back 
now, shall we?ʹ 
Harry and Hermione nodded. Hagrid shouldered his crossbow again and, still 
pinching his nose, led the way back into the trees. 
Nobody spoke for a while, not even when they heard the distant crash that 
meant Grawp had pulled over the pine tree at last. Hermioneʹs face was pale and 
set. Harry could not think of a single thing to say. What on earth was going to 
happen when somebody found out that Hagrid had hidden Grawp in the 
Forbidden Forest? And he had promised that he, Ron and Hermione would 
continue Hagridʹs totally pointless attempts to civilise the giant. How could 

Hagrid, even with his immense capacity to delude himself that fanged monsters 
were loveably harmless, fool himself that Grawp would ever be fit to mix with 
humans? 
ʹHold it,ʹ said Hagrid abruptly, just as Harry and Hermione were struggling 
through a patch of thick knotgrass behind him. He pulled an arrow out of the 
quiver over his shoulder and fitted it into the crossbow. Harry and Hermione 
raised their wands; now that they had stopped walking, they, too, could hear 
movement close by. 
ʹOh, blimeyʹ said Hagrid quietly. 
ʹI thought we told you, Hagrid,ʹ said a deep male voice, ʹthat you are no longer 
welcome here?ʹ 
A manʹs naked torso seemed for an instant to be floating towards them through 
the dappled green half‐light; then they saw that his waist joined smoothly into a 
horseʹs chestnut body. This centaur had a proud, high‐cheekboned face and long 
black hair. Like Hagrid, he was armed; a quiverful of arrows and a longbow 
were slung over his shoulders. 
ʹHow are yeh, Magorian?ʹ said Hagrid warily. 
The trees behind the centaur rustled and four or five more centaurs emerged 
behind him. Harry recognised the black‐bodied and bearded Bane, whom he had 
met nearly four years ago on the same night he had met Firenze. Bane gave no 
sign that he had ever seen Harry before. 
ʹSo,ʹ he said, with a nasty inflection in his voice, before turning immediately to 
Magorian. ʹWe agreed, I think, what we would do if this human ever showed his 
face in the Forest again?ʹ 
ʹThis humanʺ now, am I?ʹ said Hagrid testily. ʹJusʹ fer stoppinʹ all of yeh 
committinʹ murder?ʹ 
ʹYou ought not to have meddled, Hagrid,ʹ said Magorian. ʹOur ways are not 
yours, nor are our laws. Firenze has betrayed and dishonoured us.ʹ 
ʹI dunno how yehʹwork that out,ʹ said Hagrid impatiently. ʹHeʹs done nothinʹ 
except help Albus Dumbledore ‐ʹ 

ʹFirenze has entered into servitude to humans,ʹ said a grey centaur with a hard, 
deeply lined face. 
ʹServitude!ʹ said Hagrid scathingly. ʹHeʹs doinʹ Dumbledore a favour is all ‐ʹ 
ʹHe is peddling our knowledge and secrets among humans,ʹ said Magorian 
quietly. There can be no return from such disgrace.ʹ 
ʹIf yeh say so,ʹ said Hagrid, shrugging, ʹbut personally I think yehʹre makinʹ a big 
mistake ‐ʹ 
ʹAs are you, human,ʹ said Bane, ʹcoming back into our Forest when we warned 
you ‐ʹ 
ʹNow, yeh listen ter me,ʹ said Hagrid angrily. Til have less of the 
ʹourʺ Forest, if itʹs all the same ter yeh. Itʹs not up ter yeh who comes anʹ goes in 
here ‐ʹ 
ʹNo more is it up to you, Hagrid,ʹ said Magorian smoothly. ʹI shall let you pass 
today because you are accompanied by your young —ʹ 
Theyʹre not his!ʹ interrupted Bane contemptuously. ʹStudents, Magorian, from up 
at the school! They have probably already profited from the traitor Firenzeʹs 
teachings.ʹ 
ʹNevertheless,ʹ said Magorian calmly, ʹthe slaughter of foals is a terrible crime ‐ 
we do not touch the innocent. Today, Hagrid, you pass. Henceforth, stay away 
from this place. You forfeited the friendship of the centaurs when you helped the 
traitor Firenze escape us.ʹ 
ʹI wonʹ be kept outta the Foresʹ by a bunch oʹ old mules like yeh!ʹ said Hagrid 
loudly. 
ʹHagrid,ʹ said Hermione in a high‐pitched and terrified voice, as both Bane and 
the grey centaur pawed at the ground, ʹletʹs go, please letʹs go!ʹ 
Hagrid moved forwards, but his crossbow was still raised and his eyes were still 
fixed threateningly upon Magorian. 

ʹWe know what you are keeping in the Forest, Hagrid!ʹ Magorian called after 
them, as the centaurs slipped out of sight. ʹAnd our tolerance is waning!ʹ 
Hagrid turned and gave every appearance of wanting to walk straight back to 
Magorian. 
ʹYehʹll tolerate ʹim as long as heʹs here, itʹs as much his Forest as yours!ʹ he yelled, 
as Harry and Hermione both pushed with all their might against Hagridʹs 
moleskin waistcoat in an effort to keep him moving forwards. Still scowling, he 
looked down; his expression changed to mild surprise at the sight of them both 
pushing him; he seemed not to have felt it. 
ʹCalm down, you two,ʹ he said, turning to walk on while they panted along 
behind him. ʹRuddy old mules, though, eh?ʹ 
ʹHagrid,ʹ said Hermione breathlessly, skirting the patch of nettles they had 
passed on their way there, ʹif the centaurs donʹt want humans in the Forest, it 
doesnʹt really look as though Harry and I will be able ‐ʹ 
ʹAh, you heard what they said, ʹsaid Hagrid dismissively, ʹthey wouldnʹt hurt 
foals ‐ I mean, kids. Anyway, we canʹ let ourselves be pushed arounʹ by that lot.ʹ 
ʹNice try,ʹ Harry murmured to Hermione, who looked crestfallen. 
At last they rejoined the path and, after another ten minutes, the trees began to 
thin; they were able to see patches of clear blue sky again and, in the distance, the 
definite sounds of cheering and shouting. 
ʹWas that another goal?ʹ asked Hagrid, pausing in the shelter of the trees as the 
Quidditch stadium came into view. ʹOr dʹyeh reckon the match is over?ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know,ʹ said Hermione miserably. Harry saw that she looked much the 
worse for wear; her hair was full of twigs and leaves, her robes were ripped in 
several places and there were numerous scratches on her face and arms. He 
knew he must look little better. 
ʹI reckon itʹs over, yeh know!ʹ said Hagrid, still squinting towards the stadium. 
ʹLook ‐ thereʹs people cominʹ out already ‐ if yeh two hurry yehʹll be able ter 
blend in with the crowd anʹ no oneʹll know yeh werenʹt there!ʹ 
ʹGood idea,ʹ said Harry. ʹWell… see you later, then, Hagrid.ʹ 

ʹI donʹt believe him,ʹ said Hermione in a very unsteady voice, the moment they 
were out of earshot of Hagrid. ʹI donʹt believe him. I really donʹt believe him.ʹ 
ʹCalm down,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹCalm down!ʹ she said feverishly. ʹA giant! A giant in the Forest! And weʹre 
supposed to give him English lessons! Always assuming, of course, we can get 
past the herd of murderous centaurs on the way in and out! I ‐ donʹt ‐ believe ‐ 
him!ʹ 
ʹWe havenʹt got to do anything yet!ʹ Harry tried to reassure her in a quiet voice, 
as they joined a stream of jabbering Hufflepuffs heading back towards the castle. 
ʹHeʹs not asking us to do anything unless he gets chucked out and that might not 
even happen.ʹ 
ʹOh, come off it, Harry!ʹ said Hermione angrily, stopping dead in her tracks so 
that the people behind had to swerve to avoid her. ʹOf course heʹs going to be 
chucked out and, to be perfectly honest, after what weʹve just seen, who can 
blame Umbridge?ʹ 
There was a pause in which Harry glared at her, and her eyes filled slowly with 
tears. 
ʹYou didnʹt mean that,ʹ said Harry quietly. 
ʹNo… well… all right… 1 didnʹt,ʹ she said, wiping her eyes angrily. ʹBut why 
does he have to make life so difficult for himself ‐ for us?ʹ 
ʹI dunno ‐ʹ 
ʹWeasley is our King, Weasley is our King, He didnʹt let the Quaffle in, Weasley is our 
King…ʺ
ʹAnd 1 wish theyʹd stop singing that stupid song,ʹ said Hermione miserably, 
ʹhavenʹt they gloated enough?ʹ 
A great tide of students was moving up the sloping lawns from the pitch. 
ʹOh, letʹs get in before we have to meet the Slytherins,ʹ said Hermione. 

ʹWeasley can save anything, He never leaves a single ring, Thatʹs why.Gryffindors all 
sing: Weasley is our King.ʹ
ʹHermione…ʹ said Harry slowly. 
The song was growing louder, but it was issuing not from a crowd of green‐and‐
silver‐clad Slytherins, but from a mass of red and gold moving slowly towards 
the castle, bearing a solitary figure upon its many shoulders. 
ʹWeasley is our King, Weasley is our King, He didnʹt let the Quaffle in, Weasley is our 
King…ʺ 
ʹNo?ʹ said Hermione in a hushed voice. 
ʹYES!ʹ said Harry loudly. 
ʹHARRY! HERMIONE!ʹ yelled Ron, waving the silver Quidditch cup in the air 
and looking quite beside himself. ʹWE DID IT! WE WON!ʹ 
They beamed up at him as he passed. There was a scrum at the door of the castle 
and Ronʹs head got rather badly bumped on the lintel, but nobody seemed to 
want to put him down. Still singing, the crowd squeezed itself into the Entrance 
Hall and out of sight. Harry and Hermione watched them go, beaming, until the 
last echoing strains of ʹWeasley is our Kingʹ died away. Then they turned to each 
other, their smiles fading. 
ʹWeʹll save our news till tomorrow, shall we?ʹ said Harry. 
ʹYes, all right,ʹ said Hermione wearily. ʹIʹm not in any hurry.ʹ 
They climbed the steps together. At the front doors both instinctively looked 
back at the Forbidden Forest. Harry was not sure whether or not it was his 
imagination, but he rather thought he saw a small cloud of birds erupting into 
the air over the tree tops in the distance, almost as though the tree in which they 
had been nesting had just been pulled up by the roots. 
— CHAPTER THIRTY‐ONE — 
Ronʹs euphoria at helping Gryffindor scrape the Quidditch cup was such that he 
couldnʹt settle to anything next day. All he wanted to do was talk over the match, 
so Harry and Hermione found it very difficult to find an opening in which to 

mention Grawp. Not that either of them tried very hard; neither was keen to be 
the one to bring Ron back to reality in quite such a brutal fashion. As it was 
another fine, warm day, they persuaded him to join them in revising under the 
beech tree at the edge of the lake, where they had less chance of being overheard 
than in the common room. Ron was not particularly keen on this idea at first ‐ he 
was thoroughly enjoying being patted on the back by every Gryffindor who 
walked past his chair, not to mention the occasional outbursts of ʹWeasley is our 
Kingʹ ‐ but after a while he agreed that some fresh air might do him good. 
They spread their books out in the shade of the beech tree and sat down while 
Ron talked them through his first save of the match for what felt like the dozenth 
time. 
ʹWell, I mean, Iʹd already let in that one of Daviesʹs, so I wasnʹt feeling all that 
confident, but I dunno, when Bradley came towards me, just out of nowhere, I 
thought ‐ you can do this! And I had about a second to decide which way to fly, 
you know, because he looked like he was aiming for the right goalhoop ‐ my 
right, obviously, his left ‐ but I had a funny feeling that he was feinting, and so I 
took the chance and flew left ‐ his right, I mean ‐ and ‐ well ‐ you saw what 
happened,ʹ he concluded modestly, sweeping his hair back quite unnecessarily 
so that it looked interestingly windswept and glancing around to see whether the 
people nearest to them — a bunch of gossiping third‐year Hufflepuffs — had 
heard him. ʹAnd then, when Chambers came at me about five minutes later ‐ 
What?ʹ Ron asked, having stopped mid‐sentence at the look on Harryʹs face. 
ʹWhy are you grinning?ʹ 
ʹIʹm not,ʹ said Harry quickly, and looked down at his Transfiguration notes, 
attempting to straighten his face. The truth was that Ron had just reminded 
Harry forcibly of another Gryffindor Quidditch player who had once sat 
rumpling his hair under this very tree. ʹIʹm just glad we won, thatʹs all.ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Ron slowly, savouring the words, ʹwe won. Did you see the look on 
Changs face when Ginny got the Snitch right out from under her nose?ʹ 
ʹI suppose she cried, did she?ʹ said Harry bitterly. 
ʹWell, yeah ‐ more out of temper than anything, though…ʹ Ron frowned slightly. 
ʹBut you saw her chuck her broom away when she got back to the ground, didnʹt 
you?ʹ 

ʹEr ‐ʹ said Harry. 
ʹWell, actually… no, Ron,ʹ said Hermione with a heavy sigh, putting down her 
book and looking at him apologetically. ʹAs a matter of fact, the only bit of the 
match Harry and I saw was Daviesʹs first goal.ʹ 
Ronʹs carefully ruffled hair seemed to wilt with disappointment. ʹYou didnʹt 
watch?ʹ he said faintly, looking from one to the other. ʹYou didnʹt see me make 
any of those saves?ʹ 
ʹWell ‐ no,ʹ said Hermione, stretching out a placatory hand towards him. ʹBut 
Ron, we didnʹt want to leave — we had to!ʹ 
ʹYeah?ʹ said Ron, whose face was growing rather red. ʹHow come?ʹ 
ʹIt was Hagrid,ʹ said Harry. ʹHe decided to tell us why heʹs been covered in 
injuries ever since he got back from the giants. He wanted us to go into the Forest 
with him, we had no choice, you know how he gets. Anyway…ʹ 
The story was told in five minutes, by the end of which Ronʹs indignation had 
been replaced by a look of total incredulity. 
ʹHe brought one back and hid it in the Forest?ʹ 
ʹYep,ʹ said Harry grimly. 
ʹNo,ʹ said Ron, as though by saying this he could make it untrue. ʹNo, he canʹt 
have.ʹ 
ʹWell, he has,ʹ said Hermione firmly. ʹGrawpʹs about sixteen feet tall, enjoys 
ripping up twenty‐foot pine trees, and knows me,ʹ she snorted, ʹas Hermy.ʹ 
Ron gave a nervous laugh. 
ʹAnd Hagrid wants us to… ?ʹ 
Teach him English, yeah,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹHeʹs lost his mind,ʹ said Ron in an almost awed voice. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Hermione irritably, turning a page of Intermediate Transfiguration and 
glaring at a series of diagrams showing an owl turning into a pair of opera 

glasses. ʹYes, Iʹm starting to think he has. But, unfortunately, he made Harry and 
me promise.ʹ 
ʹWell, youʹre just going to have to break your promise, thatʹs all,ʹ said Ron firmly. 
ʹI mean, come on… weʹve got exams and weʹre about that far ‐ʹ he held up his 
hand to show thumb and forefinger almost touching ʹ‐ from being chucked out as 
it is. And anyway… remember Norbert? Remember Aragog? Have we ever come 
off better for mixing with any of Hagridʹs monster mates?ʹ 
ʹI know, itʹs just that ‐ we promised,ʹ said Hermione in a small voice. 
Ron smoothed his hair flat again, looking preoccupied. 
ʹWell,ʹ he sighed, ʹHagrid hasnʹt been sacked yet, has he? Heʹs hung on this long, 
maybe heʹll hang on till the end of term and we wonʹt have to go near Grawp at 
all.ʹ 
* 
The castle grounds were gleaming in the sunlight as though freshly painted; the 
cloudless sky smiled at itself in the smoothly sparkling lake; the satin green 
lawns rippled occasionally in a gentle breeze. June had arrived, but to the fifth‐
years this meant only one thing: their OWLs were upon them at last. 
Their teachers were no longer setting them homework; lessons were devoted to 
revising those topics the teachers thought most likely to come up in the exams. 
The purposeful, feverish atmosphere drove nearly everything but the OWLs 
from Harryʹs mind, though he did wonder occasionally during Potions lessons 
whether Lupin had ever told Snape that he must continue giving Harry 
Occlumency tuition. If he had, then Snape had ignored Lupin as thoroughly as 
he was now ignoring Harry. This suited Harry very 
UWLS OZJ 
well; he was quite busy and tense enough without extra classes with Snape, and 
to his relief Hermione was much too preoccupied these days to badger him about 
Occlumency; she was spending a lot of time muttering to herself, and had not 
laid out any elf clothes for days. 

She was not the only person acting oddly as the OWLs drew steadily nearer. 
Ernie Macmillan had developed an irritating habit of interrogating people about 
their revision practices. 
ʹHow many hours dʹyou think youʹre doing a day?ʹ he demanded of Harry and 
Ron as they queued outside Herbology, a manic gleam in his eyes. 
ʹI dunno,ʹ said Ron. ʹA few.ʹ 
ʹMore or less than eight?ʹ 
ʹLess, Iʹsʹpose,ʹ said Ron, looking slightly alarmed. 
ʹIʹm doing eight,ʹ said Ernie, puffing out his chest. ʹEight or nine. Iʹm getting an 
hour in before breakfast every day. Eights my average. I can do ten on a good 
weekend day. I did nine and a half on Monday. Not so good on Tuesday ‐ only 
seven and a quarter. Then on Wednesday ‐ʹ 
Harry was deeply thankful that Professor Sprout ushered them into greenhouse 
three at that point, forcing Ernie to abandon his recital. 
Meanwhile, Draco Malfoy had found a different way to induce panic. 
ʹOf course, itʹs not what you know,ʹ he was heard to tell Crabbe and Goyle loudly 
outside Potions a few days before the exams were to start, ʹitʹs who you know. 
Now, Fatherʹs been friendly with the head of the Wizarding Examinations 
Authority for years — old Griselda Marchbanks ‐ weʹve had her round for dinner 
and everything…ʹ 
ʹDo you think thatʹs true?ʹ Hermione whispered in alarm to Harry and Ron. 
ʹNothing we can do about it if it is,ʹ said Ron gloomily. 
ʹI donʹt think itʹs true,ʹ said Neville quietly from behind them. ʹBecause Griselda 
Marchbanks is a friend of my granʹs, and sheʹs never mentioned the Malfoys.ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs she like, Neville?ʹ asked Hermione at once. ʹIs she strict?ʹ 
ʹWell, he has,ʹ said Hermione firmly. ʹGrawpʹs about sixteen feet tall, enjoys 
ripping up twenty‐foot pine trees, and knows me,ʹ she snorted, ʹas Hermy.ʹ 

Ron gave a nervous laugh. .•; 
ʹAnd Hagrid wants us to…?ʹ 
Teach him English, yeah,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹHeʹs lost his mind,ʹ said Ron in an almost awed voice. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Hermione irritably, turning a page of Intermediate Transfiguration and 
glaring at a series of diagrams showing an owl turning into a pair of opera 
glasses. ʹYes, Iʹm starting to think he has. But, unfortunately, he made Harry and 
me promise.ʹ 
ʹWell, youʹre just going to have to break your promise, thatʹs all,ʹ said Ron firmly. 
ʹI mean, come on… weʹve got exams and weʹre about that far ‐ʹ he held up his 
hand to show thumb and forefinger almost touching ʹ‐ from being chucked out as 
it is. And anyway… remember Norbert? Remember Aragog? Have we ever come 
off better for mixing with any of Hagridʹs monster mates?ʹ 
ʹI know, itʹs just that ‐ we promised,ʹ said Hermione in a small voice. 
Ron smoothed his hair flat again, looking preoccupied. 
ʹWell,ʹ he sighed, ʹHagrid hasnʹt been sacked yet, has he? Heʹs hung on this long, 
maybe heʹll hang on till the end of term and we wonʹt have to go near Grawp at 
all.ʹ 
* 
The castle grounds were gleaming in the sunlight as though freshly painted; the 
cloudless sky smiled at itself in the smoothly sparkling lake; the satin green 
lawns rippled occasionally in a gentle breeze. June had arrived, but to the fifth‐
years this meant only one thing: their OWLs were upon them at last. 
Their teachers were no longer setting them homework; lessons were devoted to 
revising those topics the teachers thought most likely to come up in the exams. 
The purposeful, feverish atmosphere drove nearly everything but the OWLs 
from Harryʹs mind, though he did wonder occasionally during Potions lessons 
whether Lupin had ever told Snape that he must continue giving Harry 
Occlumency tuition. If he had, then Snape had ignored Lupin as thoroughly as 
he was now ignoring Harry. This suited Harry very well; he was quite busy and 

tense enough without extra classes with Snape, and to his relief Hermione was 
much too preoccupied these days to badger him about Occlumency; she was 
spending a lot of time muttering to herself, and had not laid out any elf clothes 
for days. 
She was not the only person acting oddly as the OWLs drew steadily nearer. 
Ernie Macmillan had developed an irritating habit of interrogating people about 
their revision practices. 
ʹHow many hours dʹyou think youʹre doing a day?ʹ he demanded of Harry and 
Ron as they queued outside Herbology a manic gleam in his eyes. 
ʹI dunno,ʹ said Ron. ʹA few.ʹ 
ʹMore or less than eight?ʹ 
ʹLess, Iʹsʹpose,ʹ said Ron, looking slightly alarmed. 
ʹIʹm doing eight,ʹ said Ernie, puffing out his chest. ʹEight or nine. Iʹm getting an 
hour in before breakfast every day. Eightʹs my average. I can do ten on a good 
weekend day. I did nine and a half on Monday. Not so good on Tuesday ‐ only 
seven and a quarter. Then on Wednesday ‐ʹ 
Harry was deeply thankful that Professor Sprout ushered them into greenhouse 
three at that point, forcing Ernie to abandon his recital. 
Meanwhile, Draco Malfoy had found a different way to induce panic. 
ʹOf course, itʹs not what you know,ʹ he was heard to tell Crabbe and Goyle loudly 
outside Potions a few days before the exams were to start, ʹitʹs who you know. 
Now, Fatherʹs been friendly with the head of the Wizarding Examinations 
Authority for years ‐ old Griselda Marchbanks ‐ weʹve had her round for dinner 
and everything…ʹ 
ʹDo you think thatʹs true?ʹ Hermione whispered in alarm to Harry and Ron. 
ʹNothing we can do about it if it is,ʹ said Ron gloomily. 
ʹI donʹt think itʹs true,ʹ said Neville quietly from behind them. ʹBecause Griselda 
Marchbanks is a friend of my granʹs, and sheʹs never mentioned the Malfoys.ʹ 

ʹWhatʹs she like, Neville?ʹ asked Hermione at once. ʹIs she strict?ʹ 
ʹBit like Gran, really,ʹ said Neville in a subdued voice. 
ʹKnowing her wonʹt hurt your chances, though, will it?ʹ Ron told him 
encouragingly. 
ʹOh, I donʹt think it will make any difference,ʹ said Neville, still more miserably. 
ʹGrans always telling Professor Marchbanks Iʹm not as good as my dad… well… 
you saw what sheʹs like at St Mungoʹs 
Neville looked fixedly at the floor. Harry, Ron and Hermione glanced at each 
other, but didnʹt know what to say. It was the first time Neville had 
acknowledged that they had met at the wizarding hospital. 
Meanwhile, a flourishing black‐market trade in aids to concentration, mental 
agility and wakefulness had sprung up among the fifth‐ and seventh‐years. 
Harry and Ron were much tempted by the bottle of Baruffioʹs Brain Elixir offered 
to them by Ravenclaw sixth‐year Eddie Carmichael, who swore it was solely 
responsible for the nine ʹOutstandingʹ OWLs he had gained the previous summer 
and was offering a whole pint for a mere twelve Galleons. Ron assured Harry he 
would reimburse him for his half the moment he left Hogwarts and got a job, but 
before they could close the deal, Hermione had confiscated the bottle from 
Carmichael and poured the contents down a toilet. 
ʹHermione, we wanted to buy that!ʹ shouted Ron. 
ʹDonʹt be stupid,ʹ she snarled. ʹYou might as well take Harold Dingleʹs powdered 
dragon claw and have done with it.ʹ 
ʹDingleʹs got powdered dragon claw?ʹ said Ron eagerly. 
ʹNot any more,ʹ said Hermione. ʹI confiscated that, too. None of these things 
actually work, you know.ʹ 
ʹDragon claw does work!ʹ said Ron. ʹItʹs supposed to be incredible, really gives 
your brain a boost, you come over all cunning for a few hours ‐ Hermione, let me 
have a pinch, go on, it canʹt hurt ‐ʹ 
This stuff can,ʹ said Hermione grimly. ʹIʹve had a look at it, and itʹs actually dried 
Doxy droppings.ʹ 

This information took the edge off Harry and Rons desire for brain stimulants. 
They received their examination timetables and details of the procedure for 
OWLs during their next Transfiguration lesson. 
ʹAs you can see,ʹ Professor McGonagall told the class as they copied down the 
dates and times of their exams from the blackboard, ʹyour OWLs are spread over 
two successive weeks. You will sit the theory papers in the mornings and the 
practice in the afternoons. Your practical Astronomy examination will, of course, 
take place at night. 
ʹNow, I must warn you that the most stringent anti‐cheating charms have been 
applied to your examination papers. Auto‐Answer Quills are banned from the 
examination hall, as are Remembralls, Detachable Cribbing Cuffs and Self‐
Correcting Ink. Every year, I am afraid to say, seems to harbour at least one 
student who thinks that he or she can get around the Wizarding Examinations 
Authorityʹs rules. I can only hope that it is nobody in Gryffindor. Our new ‐ 
Headmistress —ʹ Professor McGonagall pronounced the word with the same 
look on her face that Aunt Petunia had whenever she was contemplating a 
particularly stubborn bit of dirt ʹ‐ has asked the Heads of House to tell their 
students that cheating will be punished most severely ‐ because, of course, your 
examination results will reflect upon the Headmistressʹs new regime at the 
school ‐ʹ 
Professor McGonagall gave a tiny sigh; Harry saw the nostrils of her sharp nose 
flare. 
ʹ‐ however, that is no reason not to do your very best. You have your own futures 
to think about.ʹ 
ʹPlease, Professor,ʹ said Hermione, her hand in the air, ʹwhen will we find out our 
results?ʹ 
ʹAn owl will be sent to you some time in Julyʹ said Professor McGonagall. 
ʹExcellent,ʹ said Dean Thomas in an audible whisper, ʹso we donʹt have to worry 
about it till the holidays.ʹ 
Harry imagined sitting in his bedroom in Privet Drive in six weeksʹ time, waiting 
for his OWL results. Well, he thought dully, at least he would be sure of one bit 
of post that summer. 

Their first examination, Theory of Charms, was scheduled for Monday morning. 
Harry agreed to test Hermione after lunch on Sunday, but regretted it almost at 
once; she was very agitated and kept snatching the book back from him to check 
that she had got the answer completely right, finally hitting him hard on the nose 
with the sharp edge of Achievements in Charming. 
ʹWhy donʹt you just do it yourself?ʹ he said firmly, handing the book back to her, 
his eyes watering. 
Meanwhile, Ron was reading two yearsʹ worth of Charms notes with his fingers 
in his ears, his lips moving soundlessly; Seamus Finnigan was lying flat on his 
back on the floor, reciting the definition of a Substantive Charm while Dean 
checked it against The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 5; and Parvati and Lavender, 
who were practising basic Locomotion Charms, were making their pencil‐cases 
race each other around the edge of the table. 
Dinner was a subdued affair that night. Harry and Ron did not talk much, but 
ate with gusto, having studied hard all day. Hermione, on the other hand, kept 
putting down her knife and fork and diving under the table for her bag, from 
which she would seize a book to check some fact or figure. Ron was just telling 
her that she ought to eat a decent meal or she would not sleep that night, when 
her fork slid from her limp fingers and landed with a loud tinkle on her plate. 
ʹOh, my goodness,ʹ she said faintly, staring into the Entrance Hall. ʹIs that them? 
Is that the examiners?ʹ 
Harry and Ron whipped around on their bench. Through the doors to the Great 
Hall they could see Umbridge standing with a small group of ancient‐looking 
witches and wizards. Umbridge, Harry was pleased to see, looked rather 
nervous. 
ʹShall we go and have a closer look?ʹ said Ron. 
Harry and Hermione nodded and they hastened towards the double doors into 
the Entrance Hall, slowing down as they stepped over the threshold to walk 
sedately past the examiners. Harry thought Professor Marchbanks must be the 
tiny, stooped witch with a face so lined it looked as though it had been draped in 
cobwebs; Umbridge was speaking to her deferentially. Professor Marchbanks 
seemed to be a little deaf; she was answering Professor Umbridge very loudly 
considering they were only a foot apart. 

ʹJourney was fine, journey was fine, weʹve made it plenty of times before!ʹ she 
said impatiently. ʹNow, I havenʹt heard from Dumbledore lately!ʹ she added, 
peering around the Hall as though hopeful he might suddenly emerge from a 
broom cupboard. ʹNo idea where he is, 1 suppose?ʹ 
ʹNone at all,ʹ said Umbridge, shooting a malevolent look at Harry, Ron and 
Hermione, who were now dawdling around the foot of the stairs as Ron 
pretended to do up his shoelace. ʹBut I daresay the Ministry of Magic will track 
him down soon enough.ʹ 
ʹI doubt it,ʹ shouted tiny Professor Marchbanks, ʹnot if Dumbledore doesnʹt want 
to be found! I should know… examined him personally in Transfiguration and 
Charms when he did NEWTs… did things with a wand Iʹd never seen before.ʹ 
ʹYes… well…ʹ said Professor Umbridge as Harry, Ron and Hermione dragged 
their feet up the marble staircase as slowly as they dared, ʹlet me show you to the 
staff room. I daresay youʹd like a cup of tea after your journey.ʹ 
It was an uncomfortable sort of an evening. Everyone was trying to do some last‐
minute revising but nobody seemed to be getting very far. Harry went to bed 
early but then lay awake for what felt like hours. He remembered his careers 
consultation and McGonagallʹs furious declaration that she would help him 
become an Auror if it was the last thing she did. He wished he had expressed a 
more achievable ambition now that exam time was here. He knew he was not the 
only one lying awake, but none of the others in the dormitory spoke and finally, 
one by one, they fell asleep. 
None of the fifth‐years talked very much at breakfast next day, either: Parvati 
was practising incantations under her breath while the salt cellar in front of her 
twitched; Hermione was rereading Achievements in Charming so fast that her eyes 
appeared blurred; and Neville kept dropping his knife and fork and knocking 
over the marmalade. 
Once breakfast was over, the fifth‐ and seventh‐years milled around in the 
Entrance Hall while the other students went off to lessons; then, at half past nine, 
they were called forwards class by class to re‐enter the Great Hall, which had 
been rearranged exactly as Harry had seen it in the Pensieve when his father, 
Sirius and Snape had been taking their OWLs; the four house tables had been 
removed and replaced instead with many tables for one, all facing the staff‐table 
end of the Hall where Professor McGonagall stood facing them. When they were 

all seated and quiet, she said, ʹYou may begin,ʹ and turned over an enormous 
hour‐glass on the desk beside her, on which there were also spare quills, ink 
bottles and rolls of parchment. 
Harry turned over his paper, his heart thumping hard ‐ three rows to his right 
and four seats ahead Hermione was already scribbling ‐ and lowered his eyes to 
the first question: a) Give the incantation and b) describe the wand movement required 
to make objects fly. 
Harry had a fleeting memory of a club soaring high into the air and landing 
loudly on the thick skull of a troll… smiling slightly, he bent over the paper and 
began to write. 
* 
ʹWell, it wasnʹt too bad, was it?ʹ asked Hermione anxiously in the Entrance Hall 
two hours later, still clutching the exam paper. ʹIʹm not sure I did myself justice 
on Cheering Charms, I just ran out of time. Did you put in the counter‐charm for 
hiccoughs? I wasnʹt, sure whether I ought to, it felt like too much ‐ and on 
question twenty‐three ‐ʹ 
ʹHermione,ʹ said Ron sternly, ʹweʹve been through this before… weʹre not going 
through every exam afterwards, itʹs bad enough doing them once.ʹ 
The fifth‐years ate lunch with the rest of the school (the four house tables had 
reappeared for the lunch hour), then they trooped off into the small chamber 
beside the Great Hall, where they were to wait until called for their practical 
examination. As small groups of students were called forwards in alphabetical 
order, those left behind muttered incantations and practised wand movements, 
occasionally poking each other in the back or eye by mistake. 
Hermioneʹs name was called. Trembling, she left the chamber with Anthony 
Goldstein, Gregory Goyle and Daphne Greengrass. Students who had already 
been tested did not return afterwards, so Harry and Ron had no idea how 
Hermione had done. 
ʹSheʹll be fine, remember she got a hundred and twelve per cent on one of our 
Charms tests?ʹ said Ron. 
Ten minutes later, Professor Flitwick called, ʹParkinson, Pansy ‐ Patil, Padma ‐ 
Patil, Parvati ‐ Potter, Harry.ʹ 

ʹGood luck,ʹ said Ron quietly. Harry walked into the Great Hall, clutching his 
wand so tightly his hand shook. 
ʹProfessor Tofty is free, Potter,ʹ squeaked Professor Flitwick, who was standing 
just inside the door. He pointed Harry towards what looked like the very oldest 
and baldest examiner who was sitting behind a small table in a far corner, a short 
distance from Professor Marchbanks, who was halfway through testing Draco 
Malfoy. 
ʹPotter, is it?ʹ said Professor Tofty, consulting his notes and peering over his 
pince‐nez at Harry as he approached. The famous Potter?ʹ 
Out of the corner of his eye, Harry distinctly saw Malfoy throw a scathing look 
over at him; the wine‐glass Malfoy had been levitating fell to the floor and 
smashed. Harry could not suppress a grin; Professor Tofty smiled back at him 
encouragingly. 
Thatʹs it,ʹ he said in his quavery old voice, ʹno need to be nervous. Now, if I could 
ask you to take this egg cup and make it do some cartwheels for me.ʹ 
On the whole, Harry thought it went rather well. His Levitation Charm was 
certainly much better than Malfoyʹs had been, though he wished he had not 
mixed up the incantations for Colour Change and Growth Charms, so that the rat 
he was supposed to be turning orange swelled shockingly and was the size of a 
badger before Harry could rectify his mistake. He was glad Hermione had not 
been in the Hall at the time and neglected to mention it to her afterwards. He 
could tell Ron, though; Ron had caused a dinner plate to mutate into a large 
mushroom and had no idea how it had happened. 
There was no time to relax that night; they went straight to the common room 
after dinner and submerged themselves in revision for Transfiguration next day; 
Harry went to bed with his head buzzing with complex spell models and 
theories. 
He forgot the definition of a Switching Spell during his written paper next 
morning but thought his practical could have been a lot worse. At least he 
managed to Vanish the whole of his iguana, whereas poor Hannah Abbott lost 
her head completely at the next table and somehow managed to multiply her 
ferret into a flock of flamingos, causing the examination to be halted for ten 
minutes while the birds were captured and carried out of the Hall. 

They had their Herbology exam on Wednesday (other than a small bite from a 
Fanged Geranium, Harry ielt he had done reasonably well); and then, on 
Thursday, Defence Against the Dark. Arts. Here, for the first time, Harry felt sure 
he had passed. He had no problem with any of the written questions and took 
particular pleasure, during the practical examination, in performing all the 
counter‐jinxes and defensive spells right in front of Umbridge, who was 
watching coolly from near the doors into the Entrance Hall. 
ʹOh, bravo!ʹ cried Professor Tofty, who was examining Harry again, when Harry 
demonstrated a perfect Boggart banishing spell. ʹVery good indeed! Well, I think 
thatʹs all, Potter… unless…ʺ 
He leaned forwards a little. 
ʹI heard, from my dear friend Tiberius Ogden, that you can produce a Patronus? 
For a bonus point… ?ʹ 
Harry raised his wand, looked directly at Umbridge and imagined her being 
sacked. 
ʹExpecto patronum!ʹ
His silver stag erupted from the end of his wand and cantered the length of the 
Hall. All of the examiners looked around to watch its progress and when it 
dissolved into silver mist Professor Tofty clapped his veined and knotted hands 
enthusiastically. 
ʹExcellent!ʹ he said. ʹVery well, Potter, you may go!ʹ 
As Harry passed Umbridge beside the door, their eyes met. There was a nasty 
smile playing around her wide, slack mouth, but he did not care. Unless he was 
very much mistaken (and he was not planning on telling anybody, in case he 
was), he had just achieved an ʹOutstandingʹ OWL. 
On Friday, Harry and Ron had a day off while Hermione sat her Ancient Runes 
exam, and as they had the whole weekend in front of them they permitted 
themselves a break from revision. They stretched and yawned beside the open 
window, through which warm summer air was wafting as they played wizard 
chess. Harry could see Hagnd in the distance, teaching a class on the edge of the 
Forest. He was trying to guess what creatures they were examining ‐ he thought 
it must be unicorns, because the boys seemed to be standing back a little ‐ when 

the portrait hole opened and Hermione clambered in, looking thoroughly bad‐
tempered. 
ʹHow were the Runes?ʹ said Ron, yawning and stretching. 
ʹI mis‐translated ehwaz,ʹ said Hermione furiously. ʹIt means partnership, not 
defence; I mixed it up with eihwaz.ʹ 
ʹAh well,ʹ said Ron lazily, ʹthatʹs only one mistake, isnʹt it, youʹll still get ‐ʹ 
ʹOh, shut up!ʹ said Hermione angrily. ʹIt could be the one mistake that makes the 
difference between a pass and a fail. And whatʹs more, someoneʹs put another 
Niffler in Umbridgeʹs office. I donʹt know how they got it through that new door, 
but I just walked past there and Umbridge is shrieking her head off ‐ by the 
sound of it, it tried to take a chunk out of her leg ‐ʹ 
ʹGood,ʹ said Harry and Ron together. 
ʹIt is not good!ʹ said Hermione hotly. ʹShe thinks itʹs Hagrid doing it, remember? 
And we do not want Hagrid chucked out!ʹ 
ʹHeʹs teaching at the moment; she canʹt blame him,ʹ said Harry, gesturing out of 
the window. 
ʹOh, youʹre so naive sometimes, Harry. You really think Umbridge will wait for 
proof?ʹ said Hermione, who seemed determined to be in a towering temper, and 
she swept off towards the girlsʹ dormitories, banging the door behind her. 
ʹSuch a lovely, sweet‐tempered girl,ʹ said Ron, very quietly, prodding his queen 
forward to beat up one of Harryʹs knights. 
Hermioneʹs bad mood persisted for most of the weekend, though Harry and Ron 
found it quite easy to ignore as they spent most of Saturday and Sunday revising 
for Potions on Monday, the exam which Harry had been looking forward to least 
‐ and which he was sure would be the downfall of his ambitions to become an 
Auror. Sure enough, he found the written paper difficult, though he thought he 
might have got full marks on the question about Polyjuice Potion; he could 
describe its effects accurately, having taken it illegally in his second year. 
The afternoon practical was not as dreadful as he had expected it to be. With 
Snape absent from the proceedings, he found that he was much more relaxed 

than he usually was while making potions. Neville, who was sitting very near 
Harry, also looked happier than Harry had ever seen him during a Potions class. 
When Professor Marchbanks said, ʹStep away from your cauldrons, please, the 
examination is over,ʹ Harry corked his sample flask feeling that he might not 
have achieved a good grade but he had, with luck, avoided a fail. 
ʹOnly four exams left,ʹ said Parvati Patil wearily as they headed back to 
Gryffindor common room. 
ʹOnly!ʹ said Hermione snappishly. ʹIʹve got Arithmancy and itʹs probably the 
toughest subject there is!ʹ 
Nobody was foolish enough to snap back, so she was unable to vent her spleen 
on any of them and was reduced to telling off some first‐years for giggling too 
loudly in the common room. 
Harry was determined to perform well in Tuesdays Care of Magical Creatures 
exam so as not to let Hagnd down. The practical examination took place in the 
afternoon on the lawn on the edge of the Forbidden Forest, where students were 
required to correctly identify the Knarl hidden among a dozen hedgehogs (the 
trick was to offer them all milk in turn: Knarls, highly suspicious creatures whose 
quills had many magical properties, generally went berserk at what they saw as 
an attempt to poison them); then demonstrate correct handling of a Bowtruckle; 
feed and clean out a Fire Crab without sustaining serious burns; and choose, 
from a wide selection of food, the diet they would give a sick unicorn. 
Harry could see Hagrid watching anxiously out of his cabin window. When 
Harryʹs examiner, a plump little witch this time, smiled at him and told him he 
could leave, Harry gave Hagrid a fleeting thumbs‐up before heading back to the 
castle. 
The Astronomy theory paper on Wednesday morning went well enough. Harry 
was not convinced he had got the names of all Jupiterʹs moons right, but was at 
least confident that none of them was inhabited by mice. They had to wait until 
evening for their practical Astronomy; the afternoon was devoted instead to 
Divination. 
Even by Harryʹs low standards in Divination, the exam went very badly. He 
might as well have tried to see moving pictures on the desktop as in the 
stubbornly blank crystal ball; he lost his head completely during tea‐leaf reading, 

saying it looked to him as though Professor Marchbanks would shortly be 
meeting a round, dark, soggy stranger, and rounded off the whole fiasco by 
mixing up the life and head lines on her palm and informing her that she ought 
to have died the previous Tuesday. 
ʹWell, we were always going to fail that one,ʹ said Ron gloomily as they ascended 
the marble staircase. He had just made Harry feel rather better by telling him 
how he had told the examiner in detail about the ugly man with a wart on his 
nose in his crystal ball, only to look up and realise he had been describing his 
examinerʹs reflection. 
ʹWe shouldnʹt have taken the stupid subject in the first place,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹStill, at least we can give it up now.ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry. ʹNo more pretending we care what happens when Jupiter and 
Uranus get too friendly.ʹ 
ʹAnd from now on, I donʹt care if my tea‐leaves spell die, Ron, die ‐ Iʹm just 
chucking them in the bin where they belong.ʹ 
Harry laughed just as Hermione came running up behind them. He stopped 
laughing at once, in case it annoyed her. 
ʹWell, I think Iʹve done all right in Arithmancyʹ she said, and Harry and Ron both 
sighed with relief. ʹJust time for a quick look over our star‐charts before dinner, 
then…ʺ 
When they reached the top of the Astronomy Tower at eleven oʹclock, they found 
a perfect night for stargazing, cloudless and still. The grounds were bathed in 
silvery moonlight and there was a slight chill in the air. Each of them set up his 
or her telescope and, when Professor Marchbanks gave the word, proceeded to 
fill in the blank star‐chart they had been given. 
Professors Marchbanks and Tofty strolled among them, watching as they entered 
the precise positions of the stars and planets they were observing. All was quiet 
except for the rustle of parchment, the occasional creak of a telescope as it was 
adjusted on its stand, and the scribbling of many quills. Half an hour passed, 
then an hour; the little squares of reflected gold light flickering on the ground 
below started to vanish as lights in the castle windows were extinguished. 

As Harry completed the constellation Orion on his chart, however, the front 
doors of the castle opened directly below the parapet where he was standing, so 
that light spilled down the stone steps a little way across the lawn. Harry glanced 
down as he made a slight adjustment to the position of his telescope and saw five 
or six elongated shadows moving over the brightly lit grass before the doors 
swung shut and the lawn became a sea of darkness once more. 
Harry put his eye back to his telescope and refocused it, now examining Venus. 
He looked down at his chart to enter the planet there, but something distracted 
him; pausing with his quill suspended over the parchment, he squinted down 
into the shadowy grounds and saw half a dozen figures walking over the lawn. If 
they had not been moving, and the moonlight had not been gilding the tops of 
their heads, they would have been indistinguishable from the dark ground on 
which they walked. Even at this distance, Harry had a funny feeling he 
recognised the walk of the squattest of them, who seemed to be leading the 
group. 
He could not think why Umbridge would be taking a stroll outside after 
midnight, much less accompanied by five others. Then somebody coughed 
behind him, and he remembered that he was halfway through an exam. He had 
quite forgotten Venusʹs position. Jamming his eye to his telescope, he found it 
again and was once more about to enter it on his chart when, alert for any odd 
sound, he heard a distant knock which echoed through the deserted grounds, 
followed immediately by the muffled barking of a large dog. 
He looked up, his heart hammering. There were lights on in Hagridʹs windows 
and the people he had observed crossing the lawn were now silhouetted against 
them. The door opened and he distinctly saw six sharply defined figures walk 
over the threshold. The door closed again and there was silence. 
Harry felt very uneasy. He glanced around to see whether Ron or Hermione had 
noticed what he had, but Professor Marchbanks came walking behind him at that 
moment and, not wanting to look as though he was sneaking looks at anyone 
elseʹs work, Harry hastily bent over his star‐chart and pretended to be adding 
notes to it while really peering over the top of the parapet towards Hagridʹs 
cabin. Figures were now moving across the cabin windows, temporarily blocking 
the light. 
He could feel Professor Marchbanksʹs eyes on the back of his neck and pressed 
his eye again to his telescope, staring up at the moon though he had marked its 

position an hour ago, but as Professor Marchbanks moved on he heard a roar 
from the distant cabin that echoed through the darkness right to the top of the 
Astronomy Tower. Several of the people around Harry ducked out from behind 
their telescopes and peered instead in the direction of Hagridʹs cabin. 
Professor Tofty gave another dry little cough. 
Try and concentrate, now, boys and girls,ʹ he said softly. 
Most people returned to their telescopes. Harry looked to his left. Hermione was 
gazing transfixed at Hagridʹs cabin. 
ʹAhem ‐ twenty minutes to go,ʹ said Professor Tofty. 
Hermione jumped and returned at once to her star‐chart; Harry looked down at 
his own and noticed that he had mis‐labelled Venus as Mars. He bent to correct 
it. 
There was a loud BANG from the grounds. Several people cried ʹOuch!ʹ when 
they poked themselves in the face with the ends of their telescopes as they 
hastened to see what was going on below. 
Hagridʹs door had burst open and by the light flooding out of the cabin they saw 
him quite clearly a massive figure roaring and brandishing his fists, surrounded 
by six people, all of whom, judging by the tiny threads of red light they were 
casting in his direction, seemed to be attempting to Stun him. 
ʹNo!ʹ cried Hermione. 
ʹMy dear!ʹ said Professor Tofty in a scandalised voice. This is an examination!ʹ 
But nobody was paying the slightest attention to their star‐charts any more. Jets 
of red light were still flying about beside Hagridʹs cabin, yet somehow they 
seemed to be bouncing off him; he was still upright and still, as far as Harry 
could see, fighting. Cries and yells echoed across the grounds; a man yelled, ʹBe 
reasonable, Hagrid!ʹ 
Hagrid roared, ʹReasonable be damned, yeh wonʹ take me like this, Dawlish!ʹ 
Harry could see the tiny outline of Fang, attempting to defend Hagrid, leaping 
repeatedly at the wizards surrounding him until a 

Stunning Spell caught him and he fell to the ground. Hagrid gave a howl of fury, 
lifted the culprit bodily from the ground and threw him; the man flew what 
looked like ten feet and did not get up again. Hermione gasped, both hands over 
her mouth; Harry looked round at Ron and saw that he, too, was looking scared. 
None of them had ever seen Hagrid in a real temper before. 
ʹLook!ʹ squealed Parvati, who was leaning over the parapet and pointing to the 
foot of the castle where the front doors had opened again; more light was spilling 
out on to the dark lawn and a single long black shadow was now rippling across 
the lawn. 
ʹNow, really!ʹ said Professor Tofty anxiously. ʹOnly sixteen minutes left, you 
know!ʹ 
But nobody paid him the slightest attention: they were watching the person now 
sprinting towards the battle beside Hagridʹs cabin. 
ʹHow dare you!ʹ the figure shouted as she ran. ʹHow dare you!ʹ 
ʹItʹs McGonagall!ʹ whispered Hermione. 
ʹLeave him alone! Alone, I say!ʹ said Professor McGonagallʹs voice through the 
darkness. ʹOn what grounds are you attacking him? He has done nothing, 
nothing to warrant such ‐ʹ 
Hermione, Parvati and Lavender all screamed. The figures around the cabin had 
shot no fewer than four Stunners at Professor McGonagall. Halfway between 
cabin and castle the red beams collided with her; for a moment she looked 
luminous and glowed an eerie red, then she lifted right off her feet, landed hard 
on her back, and moved no more. 
ʹGalloping gargoyles!ʹ shouted Professor Tofty, who also seemed to have 
forgotten the exam completely. ʹNot so much as a warning! Outrageous 
behaviour!ʹ 
ʹCOWARDS!ʹ bellowed Hagrid; his voice carried clearly to the top of the tower, 
and several lights flickered back on inside the castle. ʹRUDDY COWARDS! 
HAVE SOME Oʹ THAT ‐ ANʹ THAT ‐ʹ 
ʹOh my —ʹ gasped Hermione. 

Hagrid took two massive swipes at his closest attackers; judging by their 
immediate collapse, they had been knocked cold. Harry saw Hagrid double over, 
and thought he had finally been overcome by a spell. But, on the contrary, next 
moment Hagrid was standing again with what appeared to be a sack on his back 
‐ 
then Harry realised that Fangʹs limp body was draped around his shoulders. 
ʹGet him, get him!ʹ screamed Umbridge, but her remaining helper seemed highly 
reluctant to go within reach of Hagridʹs fists; indeed, he was backing away so 
fast he tripped over one of his unconscious colleagues and fell over. Hagrid had 
turned and begun to run with Fang still hung around his neck. Umbridge sent 
one last Stunning Spell after him but it missed; and Hagrid, running full‐pelt 
towards the distant gates, disappeared into the darkness. 
There was a long minutes quivering silence as everybody gazed open‐mouthed 
into the grounds. Then Professor Toftyʹs voice said feebly, ʹUm… five minutes to 
go, everybody.ʹ 
Though he had only filled in two‐thirds of his chart, Harry was desperate for the 
exam to end. When it came at last he, Ron and Hermione forced their telescopes 
haphazardly back into their holders and dashed back down the spiral staircase. 
None of the students were going to bed; they were all talking loudly and 
excitedly at the foot of the stairs about what they had witnessed. 
That evil woman!ʹ gasped Hermione, who seemed to be having difficulty talking 
due to rage. Trying to sneak up on Hagrid in the dead of night!ʹ 
ʹShe clearly wanted to avoid another scene like Trelawneyʹs,ʹ said Ernie 
Macmillan sagely, squeezing over to join them. 
ʹHagrid did well, didnʹt he?ʹ said Ron, who looked more alarmed than 
impressed. ʹHow come all the spells bounced off him?ʹ 
ʹItʹll be his giant blood,ʹ said Hermione shakily. ʹIts very hard to Stun a giant, 
theyʹre like trolls, really tough… but poor Professor McGonagall… four Stunners 
straight in the chest and sheʹs not exactly young, is she?ʹ 
ʹDreadful, dreadful,ʹ said Ernie, shaking his head pompously. ʹWell, Iʹm off to 
bed. Night, all.ʹ 

People around them were drifting away, still talking excitedly about what they 
had just seen. 
ʹAt least they didnʹt get to take Hagrid off to Azkaban,ʹ said Ron. ʹI spect heʹs 
gone to join Dumbledore, hasnʹt he?ʹ 
ʹI suppose so,ʹ said Hermione, who looked tearful. ʹOh, this is awful, I really 
thought Dumbledore would be back before long, but now weʹve lost Hagrid too.ʹ 
They traipsed back to the Gryffindor common room to find it full. The 
commotion out in the grounds had woken several people, who had hastened to 
rouse their friends. Seamus and Dean, who had arrived ahead of Harry, Ron and 
Hermione, were now telling everyone what they had seen and heard from the 
top of the Astronomy Tower. 
ʹBut why sack Hagrid now?ʹ asked Angelina Johnson, shaking her head. ʹItʹs not 
like Trelawney; heʹs been teaching much better than usual this year!ʹ 
ʹUmbridge hates part‐humans,ʹ said Hermione bitterly, flopping down into an 
armchair. ʹShe was always going to try and get Hagrid out.ʹ 
ʹAnd she thought Hagrid was putting Nifflers in her office,ʹ piped up Katie Bell. 
ʹOh, blimey,ʹ said Lee Jordan, covering his mouth. ʹItʹs me whoʹs been putting the 
Nifflers in her office. Fred and George left me a couple; Iʹve been levitating them 
in through her window.ʹ 
ʹSheʹd have sacked him anywayʹ said Dean. ʹHe was too close to Dumbledore.ʹ 
Thatʹs true,ʹ said Harry, sinking into an armchair beside Hermioneʹs. 
ʹI just hope Professor McGonagallʹs all right,ʹ said Lavender tearfully. 
They carried her back up to the castle, we watched through the dormitory 
window,ʹ said Colin Creevey ʹShe didnʹt look very well.ʹ 
ʹMadam Pomfrey will sort her out,ʹ said Alicia Spinnet firmly. ʹSheʹs never failed 
yet.ʹ 
It was nearly four in the morning before the common room cleared. Harry felt 
wide awake; the image of Hagrid sprinting away into the dark was haunting 

him; he was so angry with Umbridge he could not think of a punishment bad 
enough for her, though Ronʹs suggestion of having her fed to a box of starving 
Blast‐Ended Skrewts had its merits. He fell asleep contemplating hideous 
revenges and arose from bed three hours later feeling distinctly unrested. 
Their final exam, History of Magic, was not to take place until that afternoon. 
Harry would very much have liked to go back to bed after breakfast, but he had 
been counting on the morning for a spot of last‐minute revision, so instead he sat 
with his head in his hands by the common‐room window, trying hard not to 
doze off as he read through some of the three‐and‐a‐half‐feet‐high stack of notes 
that Hermione had lent him. 
The fifth‐years entered the Great Hall at two oʹclock and took their places in front 
of their face‐down examination papers. Harry felt exhausted. He just wanted this 
to be over, so that he could go and sleep; then tomorrow, he and Ron were going 
to go down to the Quidditch pitch ‐ he was going to have a fly on Rons broom ‐ 
and savour their freedom from revision. 
Turn over your papers,ʹ said Professor Marchbanks from the front of the Hall, 
flicking over the giant hour‐glass. ʹYou may begin.ʹ 
Harry stared fixedly at the first question. It was several seconds before it 
occurred to him that he had not taken in a word of it; there was a wasp buzzing 
distractingly against one of the high windows. Slowly, tortuously, he at last 
began to write an answer. 
He was finding it very difficult to remember names and kept confusing dates. He 
simply skipped question four (In your opinion, did wand legislation contribute to, or 
lead to better control of, goblin riots of the eighteenth century?), thinking that he 
would go back to it if he had time at the end. He had a stab at question five (How 
was the Statute of Secrecy breached in 1749 and what measures were introduced to 
prevent a recurrence?) but had a nagging suspicion that he had missed several 
important points; he had a feeling vampires had come into the story somewhere. 
He looked ahead for a question he could definitely answer and his eyes alighted 
upon number ten: Describe the circumstances that led to the formation of the 
International Confederation of Wizards and explain why the warlocks of Liechtenstein 
refused to join. 

I know this, Harry thought, though his brain felt torpid and slack. He could 
visualise a heading, in Hermioneʹs handwriting: The formation of the International 
Confederation of Wizards … he had read those notes only this morning. 
He began to write, looking up now and again to check the large hour‐glass on the 
desk beside Professor Marchbanks. He was sitting right behind Parvati Patil, 
whose long dark hair fell below the back of her chair. Once or twice he found 
himself staring at the tiny golden lights that glistened in it when she moved her 
head slightly, and had to give his own head a little shake to clear it. 
… the first Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards was 
Pierre Bonaccord, but his appointment was contested by the wizarding community of 
Liechtenstein, because ‐
All around Harry quills were scratching on parchment like scurrying, burrowing 
rats. The sun was very hot on the back of his head. What was it that Bonaccord 
had done to offend the wizards of Liechtenstein? Harry had a feeling it had 
something to do with trolls… he gazed blankly at the back of Parvatiʹs head 
again. If he could only perform Legilimency and open a window in the back of 
her head and see what it was about trolls that had caused the breach between 
Pierre Bonaccord and Liechtenstein… 
Harry closed his eyes and buried his face in his hands, so that the glowing red of 
his eyelids grew dark and cool. Bonaccord had wanted to stop troll‐hunting and 
give the trolls rights… but Liechtenstein was having problems with a tribe of 
particularly vicious mountain trolls… that was it. 
He opened his eyes; they stung and watered at the sight of the blazing white 
parchment. Slowly, he wrote two lines about the trolls, then read through what 
he had done so far. It did not seem very informative or detailed, yet he was sure 
Hermioneʹs notes on the Confederation had gone on for pages and pages. 
He closed his eyes again, trying to see them, trying to remember… the 
Confederation had met for the first time in France, yes, he had written that 
already… 
Goblins had tried to attend and been ousted… he had written that, too… 
And nobody from Liechtenstein had wanted to come… 

Think, he told himself, his face in his hands, while all around him quills scratched 
out never‐ending answers and the sand trickled through the hour‐glass at the 
front… 
He was walking along the cool, dark corridor to the Department of Mysteries 
again, walking with a firm and purposeful tread, breaking occasionally into a 
run, determined to reach his destination at last… the black door swung open for 
him as usual, and here he was in the circular room with its many doors… 
Straight across the stone floor and through the second door… patches of dancing 
light on the walls and floor and that odd mechanical clicking, but no time to 
explore, he must hurry… 
He jogged the last few feet to the third door, which swung open just like the 
others… 
Once again he was in the cathedral‐sized room full of shelves and glass 
spheres… his heart was beating very fast now… he was going to get there this 
time… when he reached number ninety‐seven he turned left and hurried along 
the aisle between two rows… 
But there was a shape on the floor at the very end, a black shape moving on the 
floor like a wounded animal… Harryʹs stomach contracted with fear… with 
excitement… 
A voice issued from his own mouth, a high, cold voice empty of any human 
kindness… 
Take it for me… lift it down, now… I cannot touch it… but you can 
The black shape on the floor shifted a little. Harry saw a long‐fingered white 
hand clutching a wand rise at the end of his own arm… heard the high, cold 
voice say ʹCrucio!ʹ 
The man on the floor let out a scream of pain, attempted to stand but fell back, 
writhing. Harry was laughing. He raised his wand, the curse lifted and the figure 
groaned and became motionless. 
ʹLord Voldemort is waiting 

Very slowly, his arms trembling, the man on the ground raised his shoulders a 
few inches and lifted his head. His face was bloodstained and gaunt, twisted in 
pain yet rigid with defiance… 
ʹYouʹll have to kill me,ʹ whispered Sirius. 
ʹUndoubtedly I shall in the end,ʹ said the cold voice. ʹBut you will fetch it for me 
first, Black… you think you have felt pain thus far? Think again… we have hours 
ahead of us and nobody to hear you scream…ʹ 
But somebody screamed as Voldemort lowered his wand again; somebody 
yelled and fell sideways off a hot desk on to the cold stone floor; Harry awoke as 
he hit the ground, still yelling, his scar on fire, as the Great Hall erupted all 
around him. 
— CHAPTER THIRTY‐TWO — 
Out of the Fire
ʹIʹm not going… I donʹt need the hospital wing… I donʹt want 
He was gibbering as he tried to pull away from Professor Tofty, who was looking 
at Harry with much concern after helping him out into the Entrance Hall with 
the students all around them staring. 
ʹIʹm ‐ Iʹm fine, sir,ʹ Harry stammered, wiping the sweat from his face. ʹReally… I 
just fell asleep… had a nightmare…ʺ 
ʹPressure of examinations!ʹ said the old wizard sympathetically, patting Harry 
shakily on the shoulder. ʹIt happens, young man, it happens! Now, a cooling 
drink of water, and perhaps you will be ready to return to the Great Hall? The 
examination is nearly over, but you may be able to round off your last answer 
nicely?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry wildly. ʹI mean… no… Iʹve done ‐ done as much as I can, I 
think…ʹ 
ʹVery well, very well,ʹ said the old wizard gently. ʹI shall go and collect your 
examination paper and 1 suggest that you go and have a nice lie down.ʹ 
Til do that,ʹ said Harry, nodding vigorously. Thanks very much.ʹ 

The second that the old manʹs heels disappeared over the threshold into the 
Great Hall, Harry ran up the marble staircase, hurtled along the corridors so fast 
the portraits he passed muttered reproaches, up more flights of stairs, and finally 
burst like a hurricane through the double doors of the hospital wing, causing 
Madam Pomfrey ‐ who had been spooning some bright blue liquid into 
Montagueʹs open mouth ‐ to shriek in alarm. 
Totter, what do you think youʹre doing?ʹ 
ʹI need to see Professor McGonagall,ʹ gasped Harry, the breath tearing his lungs. 
ʹNow… itʹs urgent!ʹ 
ʹSheʹs not here, Potter,ʹ said Madam Pomfrey sadly. ʹShe was transferred to St 
Mungoʹs this morning. Four Stunning Spells straight to the chest at her age? Itʹs a 
wonder they didnʹt kill her.ʹ 
ʹSheʹs… gone?ʹ said Harry, shocked. 
The bell rang just outside the dormitory and he heard the usual distant rumbling 
of students starting to flood out into the corridors above and below him. He 
remained quite still, looking at Madam Pomfrey. Terror was rising inside him. 
There was nobody left to tell. Dumbledore had gone, Hagrid had gone, but he 
had always expected Professor McGonagall to be there, irascible and inflexible, 
perhaps, but always dependably, solidly present… 
ʹI donʹt wonder youʹre shocked, Potter,ʹ said Madam Pomfrey, with a kind of 
fierce approval in her face. ʹAs if one of them could have Stunned Minerva 
McGonagall face‐on by daylight! Cowardice, . thatʹs what it was… despicable 
cowardice… if I wasnʹt worried what would happen to you students without me, 
Iʹd resign in protest.ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry blankly. 
He wheeled around and strode blindly from the hospital wing into the teeming 
corridor where he stood, buffeted by the crowd, panic expanding inside him like 
poison gas so that his head swam and he could not think what to do… 
Ron and Hermione, said a voice in his head. 

He was running again, pushing students out of the way, oblivious to their angry 
protests. He sprinted back down two floors and was at the top of the marble 
staircase when he saw them hurrying towards him. 
ʹHarry!ʹ said Hermione at once, looking very frightened. ʹWhat happened? Are 
you all right? Are you ill?ʹ 
ʹWhere have you been?ʹ demanded Ron. 
ʹCome with me,ʹ Harry said quickly. ʹCome on, Iʹve got to tell you something.ʹ 
He led them along the first‐floor corridor, peering through doorways, and at last 
found an empty classroom into which he dived, closing the door behind Ron and 
Hermione the moment they were inside, and leaned against it, facing them. 
ʹVoldemortʹs got Sirius.ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ
ʹHow dʹyou ‐?ʹ 
ʹSaw it. Just now. When I fell asleep in the exam.ʹ 
ʹBut ‐ but where? How?ʹ said Hermione, whose face was white. 
ʹI dunno how,ʹ said Harry. ʹBut I know exactly where. Thereʹs a room in the 
Department of Mysteries full of shelves covered in these little glass balls and 
theyʹre at the end of row ninety‐seven… heʹs trying to use Sirius to get whatever 
it is he wants from in there… heʹs torturing him… says heʹll end by killing him!ʹ 
Harry found his voice was shaking, as were his knees. He moved over to a desk 
and sat down on it, trying to master himself. 
ʹHowʹre we going to get there?ʹ he asked them. 
There was a momentʹs silence. Then Ron said, ʹG‐get there?ʹ 
ʹGet to the Department of Mysteries, so we can rescue Sirius!ʹ Harry said loudly. 
ʹBut ‐ Harry…ʹ said Ron weakly. 
ʹWhat? What?ʹ said Harry. 

He could not understand why they were both gaping at him as though he was 
asking them something unreasonable. 
ʹHarry,ʹ said Hermione in a rather frightened voice, ʹer… how… how did 
Voldemort get into the Ministry of Magic without anybody realising he was 
there?ʹ 
ʹHow do I know?ʹ bellowed Harry. The question is how weʹre going to get in 
there!ʹ 
ʹBut… Harry, think about this,ʹ said Hermione, taking a step towards him, ʹitʹs 
five oʹclock in the afternoon… the Ministry of Magic must be full of workers… 
how would Voldemort and Sirius have got in without being seen? Harry… 
theyʹre probably the two most wanted wizards in the world… you think they 
could get into a building full of Aurors undetected?ʹ 
ʹI dunno, Voldemort used an Invisibility Cloak or something!ʹ Harry shouted. 
ʹAnyway, the Department of Mysteries has always been completely empty 
whenever Iʹve been ‐ʹ 
ʹYouʹve never been there, Harry,ʹ said Hermione quietly. ʹYouʹve dreamed about 
the place, thatʹs all.ʹ 
Theyʹre not normal dreams!ʹ Harry shouted in her face, standing up and taking a 
step closer to her in turn. He wanted to shake her. ʹHow dʹyou explain Ronʹs dad 
then, what was all that about, how come I knew what had happened to him?ʹ 
ʹHeʹs got a point,ʹ said Ron quietly, looking at Hermione. 
ʹBut this is just — just so unlikely*.ʹ said Hermione desperately. ʹHarry, how on 
earth could Voldemort have got hold of Sirius when heʹs been in Grimmauld 
Place all the time?ʹ 
ʹSirius mightʹve cracked and just wanted some fresh air,ʹ said Ron, sounding 
worried. ʹHeʹs been desperate to get out of that house for ages ‐ʹ 
ʹBut why,ʹ Hermione persisted, ʹwhy on earth would Voldemort want to use 
Sirius to get the weapon, or whatever the thing is?ʹ 
ʹI dunno, there could be loads of reasons!ʹ Harry yelled at her. ʹMaybe Sirius is 
just someone Voldemort doesnʹt care about seeing hurt ‐ʹ 

ʹYou know what, Iʹve just thought of something,ʹ said Ron in a hushed voice. 
ʹSiriusʹs brother was a Death Eater, wasnʹt he? Maybe he told Sirius the secret of 
how to get the weapon!ʹ 
ʹYeah ‐ and thatʹs why Dumbledoreʹs been so keen to keep Sirius locked up all 
the time!ʹ said Harry. 
ʹLook, Iʹm sorry,ʹ cried Hermione, ʹbut neither of you is making sense, and weʹve 
got no proof for any of this, no proof Voldemort and Sirius are even there ‐ʹ 
ʹHermione, Harrys seen them!ʹ said Ron, rounding on her. 
ʹOK,ʹ she said, looking frightened yet determined, ʹIʹve just got to say this ‐ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ 
ʹYou… this isnʹt a criticism, Harry! But you do… sort of… I mean ‐ donʹt you 
think youʹve got a bit of a ‐ a ‐ saving‐people thing!ʹ she said. 
He glared at her. 
ʹAnd whatʹs that supposed to mean, a ʺsaving‐people thingʺ?ʹ 
ʹWell… you…ʹ she looked more apprehensive than ever. ʹI mean… last year, for 
instance… in the lake… during the Tournament… you shouldnʹt have… I mean, 
you didnʹt need to save that little Delacour girl… you got a bit… carried away…ʹ 
A wave of hot, prickly anger swept through Harrys body; how could she remind 
him of that blunder now? 
ʹ1 mean, it was really great of you and everything,ʹ said Hermione quickly, 
looking positively petrified at the look on Harrys face, ʹeveryone thought it was a 
wonderful thing to do ‐ʹ 
Thatʹs funny,ʹ said Harry through gritted teeth, ʹbecause I definitely remember 
Ron saying Iʹd wasted time acting the hero … is that what you think this is? You 
reckon 1 want to act the hero again?ʹ 
ʹNo, no, no!ʹ said Hermione, looking aghast. Thatʹs not what I mean at all!ʹ 

ʹWell, spit out what youʹve got to say, because weʹre wasting time here!ʹ Harry 
shouted. 
ʹIʹm trying to say ‐ Voldemort knows you, Harry! He took Ginny down into the 
Chamber of Secrets to lure you there, itʹs the kind of thing he does, he knows 
youʹre the ‐ the sort of person whoʹd go to Siriusʹs aid! What if heʹs just trying to 
get you into the Department of Myst—?ʹ 
ʹHermione, it doesnʹt matter if heʹs done it to get me there or not ‐ theyʹve taken 
McGonagall to St Mungoʹs, there isnʹt anyone from the Order left at Hogwarts 
who we can tell, and if we donʹt go, Sirius is dead!ʹ 
ʹBut Harry ‐ what if your dream was ‐ was just that, a dream?ʹ 
Harry let out a roar of frustration. Hermione actually stepped back from him, 
looking alarmed. 
ʹYou donʹt get it!ʹ Harry shouted at her, ʹIʹm not having nightmares, Iʹm not just 
dreaming! What dʹyou think all the Occlumency was for, why dʹyou think 
Dumbledore wanted me prevented from seeing these things? Because theyʹre 
REAL, Hermione ‐ Sirius is trapped, Iʹve seen him. Voldemortʹs got him, and no 
one else knows, and that means weʹre the only ones who can save him, and if 
you donʹt want to do it, fine, but Iʹm going, understand? And if I remember 
rightly, you didnʹt have a problem with my saving‐people thing when it was you I 
was saving from the Dementors, or ‐ʹ he rounded on Ron ʹ‐ when it was your 
sister I was saving from the Basilisk ‐ʹ 
ʹI never said I had a problem!ʹ said Ron heatedly. 
ʹBut Harry, youʹve just said it,ʹ said Hermione fiercely, ʹDumbledore wanted you 
to learn to shut these things out of your mind, if youʹd done Occlumency 
properly youʹd never have seen this ‐ʹ 
ʹIF YOU THINK IʹM JUST GOING TO ACT LIKE I HAVENʹT SEEN ‐ʹ 
ʹSirius told you there was nothing more important than you learning to close 
your mind!ʹ 
ʹWELL, I EXPECT HEʹD SAY SOMETHING DIFFERENT IF HE KNEW WHAT 
IʹD JUST ‐ʹ 

The classroom door opened. Harry, Ron and Hermione whipped around. Ginny 
walked in, looking curious, closely followed by Luna, who as usual looked as 
though she had drifted in accidentally. 
ʹHi,ʹ said Ginny uncertainly. ʹWe recognised Harryʹs voice. What are you yelling 
about?ʹ 
ʹNever you mind,ʹ said Harry roughly. 
Ginny raised her eyebrows. 
Thereʹs no need to take that tone with me,ʹ she said coolly, ʹI was only wondering 
whether I could help.ʹ 
ʹWell, you canʹt,ʹ said Harry shortly. 
ʹYouʹre being rather rude, you know,ʹ said Luna serenely. 
Harry swore and turned away. The very last thing he wanted now was a 
conversation with Luna Lovegood. 
ʹWait,ʹ said Hermione suddenly. ʹWait… Harry, they can help.ʹ 
Harry and Ron looked at her. 
ʹListen,ʹ she said urgently, ʹHarry, we need to establish whether Sirius really has 
left Headquarters.ʹ 
ʹIʹve told you, I saw ‐ʹ 
ʹHarry, Iʹm begging you, please!ʹ said Hermione desperately. ʹPlease letʹs just 
check that Sirius isnʹt at home before we go charging off to London. If we find 
out heʹs not there, then I swear 1 wonʹt try to stop you. Iʹll come, Iʹll d ‐ do 
whatever it takes to try and save him.ʹ 
ʹSirius is being tortured NOW!ʹ shouted Harry. ʹWe havenʹt got time to waste.ʹ 
ʹBut if this is a trick of Voldemortʹs, Harry, weʹve got to check, weʹve got to.ʹ 
ʹHow?ʹ Harry demanded. ʹHowʹre we going to check?ʹ 

ʹWeʹll have to use Umbridgeʹs fire and see if we can contact him,ʹ said Hermione, 
who looked positively terrified at the thought. ʹWeʹll draw Umbridge away 
again, but weʹll need lookouts, and thatʹs where we can use Ginny and Luna.ʹ 
Though clearly struggling to understand what was going on, Ginny said 
immediately, ʹYeah, weʹll do it,ʹ and Luna said, ʹWhen you say ʺSiriusʺ, are you 
talking about Stubby Boardman?ʹ 
Nobody answered her. 
ʹOK,ʹ Harry said aggressively to Hermione, ʹOK, if you can think of a way of 
doing this quickly, Iʹm with you, otherwise Iʹm going to the Department of 
Mysteries right now.ʹ 
The Department of Mysteries?ʹ said Luna, looking mildly surprised. ʹBut how are 
you going to get there?ʹ 
Again, Harry ignored her. 
ʹRight,ʹ said Hermione, twisting her hands together and pacing up and down 
between the desks. ʹRight… well… one of us has to go and find Umbridge and ‐ 
and send her off in the wrong direction, keep her away from her office. They 
could tell her ‐ 1 donʹt know ‐ that Peeves is up to something awful as usual 
Til do it,ʹ said Ron at once. Til tell her Peeves is smashing up the Transfiguration 
department or something, itʹs miles away from her office. Come to think of it, 1 
could probably persuade Peeves to do it if I met him on the way.ʹ 
It was a mark of the seriousness of the situation that Hermione made no 
objection to the smashing up of the Transfiguration department. 
ʹOK,ʹ she said, her brow furrowed as she continued to pace. ʹNow, we need to 
keep students right away from her office while we force entry, or some 
Slytherins bound to go and tip her off.ʹ 
ʹLuna and I can stand at either end of the corridor,ʹ said Ginny promptly, ʹand 
warn people not to go down there because someoneʹs let off a load of Garrotting 
Gas.ʹ Hermione looked surprised at the readiness with which Ginny had come 
up with this lie; Ginny shrugged and said, ʹFred and George were planning to do 
it before they left.ʹ 

ʹOK,ʹ said Hermione. ʹWell then, Harry, you and I will be under the Invisibility 
Cloak and weʹll sneak into the office and you can talk to Sirius ‐ʹ 
ʹHeʹs not there, Hermione!ʹ 
ʹI mean, you can ‐ can check whether Sirius is at home or not while I keep watch, 
I donʹt think you should be in there alone, Leeʹs already proved the windows a 
weak spot, sending those Nifflers through it.ʹ 
Even through his anger and impatience, Harry recognised Hermiones offer to 
accompany him into Umbridgeʹs office as a sign of solidarity and loyalty. 
ʹI… OK, thanks,ʹ he muttered. 
ʹRight, well, even if we do all of that, I donʹt think weʹre going to be able to bank 
on more than five minutes,ʹ said Hermione, looking relieved that Harry seemed 
to have accepted the plan, ʹnot with Filch and the wretched Inquisitorial Squad 
floating around.ʹ 
ʹFive minutesʹll be enough,ʹ said Harry. ʹCʹmon, letʹs go ‐ʹ 
ʹNow?ʹ said Hermione, looking shocked. 
ʹOf course now!ʹ said Harry angrily. ʹWhat did you think, weʹre going to wait 
until after dinner or something? Hermione, Sirius is being tortured right now!ʹ 
ʹI ‐ oh, all right,ʹ she said desperately. ʹYou go and get the Invisibility Cloak and 
weʹll meet you at the end of Umbridgeʹs corridor, OK?ʹ 
Harry didnʹt answer, but flung himself out of the room and began to fight his 
way through the milling crowds outside. Two floors up he met Seamus and 
Dean, who hailed him jovially and told him they were planning a dusk‐till‐dawn 
end‐of‐exams celebration in the common room. Harry barely heard them. He 
scrambled through the portrait hole while they were still arguing about how 
many black‐market Butterbeers they would need and was climbing back out of 
it, the Invisibility Cloak and Siriusʹs knife secure in his bag, before they noticed 
he had left them. 
ʹHarry, dʹyou want to chip in a couple of Galleons? Harold Dingle reckons he 
could sell us some Firewhisky ‐ʹ 

But Harry was already tearing away back along the corridor, and a couple of 
minutes later was jumping the last few stairs to join Ron, Hermione, Ginny and 
Luna, who were huddled together at the end of Umbridgeʹs corridor. 
ʹGot it,ʹ he panted. ʹReady to go, then?ʹ :• 
ʹAll right,ʹ whispered Hermione as a gang of loud sixth‐years passed them. ʹSo 
Ron ‐ you go and head Umbridge off… Ginny, Luna, if you can start moving 
people out of the corridor… Harry and I will get the Cloak on and wait until the 
coast is clear…ʺ 
Ron strode away, his bright‐red hair visible right to the end of the passage; 
meanwhile Ginnys equally vivid head bobbed between the jostling students 
surrounding them in the other direction, trailed by Lunaʹs blonde one. 
ʹGet over here,ʹ muttered Hermione, tugging at Harryʹs wrist and pulling him 
back into a recess where the ugly stone head of a medieval wizard stood 
muttering to itself on a column. ʹAre ‐ are you sure youʹre OK, Harry? Youʹre still 
very pale.ʹ 
ʹIʹm fine,ʹ he said shortly, tugging the Invisibility Cloak from out of his bag. In 
truth, his scar was aching, but not so badly that he thought Voldemort had yet 
dealt Sirius a fatal blow; it had hurt much worse than this when Voldemort had 
been punishing Avery… 
ʹHere,ʹ he said; he threw the Invisibility Cloak over both of them and they stood 
listening carefully over the Latin mumblings of the bust in front of them. 
ʹYou canʹt come down here!ʹ Ginny was calling to the crowd. ʹNo, sorry, youʹre 
going to have to go round by the swivelling staircase, someoneʹs let off 
Garrotting Gas just along here ‐ʹ 
They could hear people complaining; one surly voice said, ʹI canʹt see no gas.ʹ 
Thatʹs because itʹs colourless,ʹ said Ginny in a convincingly exasperated voice, 
ʹbut if you want to walk through it, carry on, then weʹll have your body as proof 
for the next idiot who doesnʹt believe us.ʹ 
Slowly, the crowd thinned. The news about the Garrotting Gas seemed to have 
spread; people were not coming this way any more. When at last the 

surrounding area was quite clear, Hermione said quietly, ʹI think thatʹs as good 
as weʹre going to get, Harry — come on, letʹs do it.ʹ 
They moved forwards, covered by the Cloak. Luna was standing with her back 
to them at the far end of the corridor. As they passed Ginny, Hermione 
whispered, ʹGood one… donʹt forget the signal.ʹ 
ʹWhatʹs the signal?ʹ muttered Harry, as they approached Umbridgeʹs door. 
ʹA loud chorus of ʺWeasley is our Kingʺ if they see Umbridge coming,ʹ replied 
Hermione, as Harry inserted the blade of Siriusʹs knife in the crack between door 
and wall. The lock clicked open and they entered the office. 
The garish kittens were basking in the late‐afternoon sunshine that was warming 
their plates, but otherwise the office was as still and unoccupied as last time. 
Hermione breathed a sigh of relief. 
ʹI thought she might have added extra security after the second Niffler.ʹ 
They pulled off the Cloak; Hermione hurried over to the window and stood out 
of sight, peering down into the grounds with her wand out. Harry dashed over 
to the fireplace, seized the pot of Floo powder and threw a pinch into the grate, 
causing emerald flames to burst into life there. He knelt down quickly, thrust his 
head into the dancing fire and cried, ʹNumber twelve, Grimmauld Place!ʹ 
His head began to spin as though he had just got off a iair‐ground ride though 
his knees remained firmly planted on the cold office floor. He kept his eyes 
screwed up against the whirling ash and when the spinning stopped he opened 
them to find himself looking out at the long, cold kitchen of Grimmauld Place. 
There was nobody there. He had expected this, yet was not prepared for the 
molten wave of dread and panic that seemed to burst through his stomach at the 
sight of the deserted room. 
ʹSirius?ʹ he shouted. ʹSirius, are you there?ʹ 
His voice echoed around the room, but there was no answer except a tiny 
scuffing sound to the right of the fire. 
ʹWhoʹs there?ʹ he called, wondering whether it was just a mouse. 

Kreacher the house‐elf crept into view. He looked highly delighted about 
something, though he seemed to have recently sustained a nasty injury to both 
hands, which were heavily bandaged. 
ʹItʹs the Potter boyʹs head in the fire,ʹ Kreacher informed the empty kitchen, 
stealing furtive, oddly triumphant glances at Harry. ʹWhat has he come for, 
Kreacher wonders?ʹ 
ʹWhereʹs Sirius, Kreacher?ʹ Harry demanded. 
The house‐elf gave a wheezy chuckle. 
ʹMaster has gone out, Harry Potter.ʹ 
ʹWhereʹs he gone? Whereʹs he gone, Kreacher?ʹ 
Kreacher merely cackled. 
ʹIʹm warning you!ʹ said Harry, fully aware that his scope for inflicting 
punishment upon Kreacher was almost non‐existent in this position. ʹWhat about 
Lupin? Mad‐Eye? Any of them, are any of them there?ʹ 
ʹNobody here but Kreacher!ʹ said the elf gleefully, and turning away from Harry 
he began to walk slowly towards the door at the end of the kitchen. ʹKreacher 
thinks he will have a little chat with his mistress now, yes, he hasnʹt had a chance 
in a long time, Kreacherʹs master has been keeping him away from her ‐ʹ 
ʹWhere has Sirius gone?ʹ Harry yelled after the elf. ʹKreacher, has he gone to the 
Department of Mysteries?ʹ 
Kreacher stopped in his tracks. Harry could just make out the back of his bald 
head through the forest of chair legs before him. 
ʹMaster does not tell poor Kreacher where he is going,ʹ said the elf quietly. 
ʹBut you know!ʹ shouted Harry. ʹDonʹt you? You know where he is!ʹ 
There was a momentʹs silence, then the elf let out his loudest cackle yet. 
ʹMaster will not come back from the Department of Mysteries!ʹ he said gleefully. 
ʹKreacher and his mistress are alone again!ʹ 

And he scurried forwards and disappeared through the door to the hall. 
ʹYou ‐!ʹ 
But before he could utter a single curse or insult, Harry felt a great pain at the top 
of his head; he inhaled a lot of ash and, choking, found himself being dragged 
backwards through the flames, until with a horrible abruptness he was staring 
up into the wide, pallid face of Professor Umbridge who had dragged him 
backwards out of the fire by the hair and was now bending his neck back as far 
as it would go, as though she were going to slit his throat. 
ʹYou think,ʹ she whispered, bending Harryʹs neck back even further, so that he 
was looking up at the ceiling, ʹthat after two Nifflers 
I was going to let one more foul, scavenging little creature enter my office 
without my knowledge? I had Stealth Sensoring Spells placed all around my 
doorway after the last one got in, you foolish boy. Take his wand,ʹ she barked at 
someone he could not see, and he felt a hand grope inside the chest pocket of his 
robes and remove the wand. ʹHers, too.ʹ 
Harry heard a scuffle over by the door and knew that Hermione had also just 
had her wand wrested from her. 
ʹ1 want to know why you are in my office,ʹ said Umbridge, shaking the fist 
clutching his hair so that he staggered. 
ʹI was ‐ trying to get my Firebolt!ʹ Harry croaked. 
ʹLiar.ʹ She shook his head again. ʹYour Firebolt is under strict guard in the 
dungeons, as you very well know, Potter. You had your head in my fire. With 
whom have you been communicating?ʹ 
ʹNo one ‐ʹ said Harry, trying to pull away from her. He felt several hairs part 
company with his scalp. 
ʹLiar!ʹ shouted Umbridge. She threw him from her and he slammed into the desk. 
Now he could see Hermione pinioned against the wall by Millicent Bulstrode. 
Malfoy was leaning on the windowsill, smirking as he threw Harryʹs wand into 
the air one‐handed and caught it again. 

There was a commotion outside and several large Slytherins entered, each 
gripping Ron, Ginny, Luna and ‐ to Harryʹs bewilderment ‐ Neville, who was 
trapped in a stranglehold by Crabbe and looked in imminent danger of 
suffocation. All four of them had been gagged. 
ʹGot ʹem all,ʹ said Warrington, shoving Ron roughly forwards into the room. That 
one,ʹ he poked a thick finger at Neville, ʹtried to stop me taking her,ʹ he pointed at 
Ginny, who was trying to kick the shins of the large Slytherin girl holding her, 
ʹso I brought him along too.ʹ 
ʹGood, good,ʹ said Umbridge, watching Ginnyʹs struggles. ʹWell, it looks as 
though Hogwarts will shortly be a Weasley‐free zone, doesnʹt it?ʹ 
Malfoy laughed loudly and sycophantically. Umbridge gave her wide, 
complacent smile and settled herself into a chintz‐covered armchair, blinking up 
at her captives like a toad in a flowerbed. 
ʹSo, Potter,ʹ she said. ʹYou stationed lookouts around my office and you sent this 
buffoon,ʹ she nodded at Ron — Malfoy laughed even louder ‐ ʹto tell me the 
poltergeist was wreaking havoc in the Transfiguration department when I knew 
perfectly well that he was busy smearing ink on the eyepieces of all the school 
telescopes ‐Mr Filch having just informed me so. 
ʹClearly, it was very important for you to talk to somebody. Was it Albus 
Dumbledore? Or the half‐breed, Hagrid? I doubt it was Minerva McGonagall, I 
hear she is still too ill to talk to anyone.ʹ 
Malfoy and a few of the other members of the Inquisitorial Squad laughed some 
more at that. Harry found he was so full of rage and hatred he was shaking. 
ʹItʹs none of your business who I talk to,ʹ he snarled. 
Umbridgeʹs slack face seemed to tighten. 
ʹVery well,ʹ she said in her most dangerous and falsely sweet voice. ʹVery well, 
Mr Potter… I offered you the chance to tell me freely. You refused. I have no 
alternative but to force you. Draco 
‐ fetch Professor Snape.ʹ 

Malfoy stowed Harryʹs wand inside his robes and left the room smirking, but 
Harry hardly noticed. He had just realised something; he could not believe he 
had been so stupid as to forget it. He had thought that all the members of the 
Order, all those who could help him save Sirius, were gone ‐ but he had been 
wrong. There was still a member of the Order of the Phoenix at Hogwarts 
‐ Snape. 
There was silence in the office except for the fidgetings and scuf‐flings resulting 
from the Slytherinsʹ efforts to keep Ron and the others under control. Ronʹs lip 
was bleeding on to Umbridgeʹs carpet as he struggled against Warringtonʹs half‐
nelson; Ginny was still trying to stamp on the feet of the sixth‐year girl who had 
both her upper arms in a tight grip; Neville was turning steadily more purple in 
the face while tugging at Crabbeʹs arms; and Hermione was attempting, in vain, 
to throw Millicent Bulstrode off her. Luna, however, stood limply by the side of 
her captor, gazing vaguely out of the window as though rather bored by the 
proceedings. 
Harry looked back at Umbridge, who was watching him closely. He kept his face 
deliberately smooth and blank as footsteps were heard in the corridor outside 
and Draco Malfoy entered the room, closely followed by Snape. 
ʹYou wanted to see me, Headmistress?ʹ said Snape, looking around at all the 
pairs of struggling students with an expression of complete indifference. 
ʹAh, Professor Snape,ʹ said Umbridge, smiling widely and standing up again. 
ʹYes, 1 would like another bottle of Veritaserum, as quick as you can, please.ʹ 
ʹYou took my last bottle to interrogate Potter,ʹ he said, surveying her coolly 
through his greasy curtains of black hair. ʹSurely you did not use it all? I told you 
that three drops would be sufficient.ʹ 
Umbridge flushed. 
ʹYou can make some more, canʹt you?ʹ she said, her voice becoming more sweetly 
girlish as it always did when she was furious. 
ʹCertainly,ʹ said Snape, his lip curling. ʹIt takes a full moon‐cycle to mature, so I 
should have it ready for you in around a month.ʹ 

ʹA month?ʹ squawked Umbridge, swelling toadishly. ʹA month? But I need it this 
evening, Snape! I have just found Potter using my fire to communicate with a 
person or persons unknown!ʹ 
ʹReally?ʹ said Snape, showing his first, faint sign of interest as he looked round at 
Harry. ʹWell, it doesnʹt surprise me. Potter has never shown much inclination to 
follow school rules.ʹ 
His cold, dark eyes were boring into Harryʹs, who met his gaze unflinchingly, 
concentrating hard on what he had seen in his dream, willing Snape to read it in 
his mind, to understand… 
ʹI wish to interrogate him!ʹ repeated Umbridge angrily, and Snape looked away 
from Harry back into her furiously quivering face. ʹI wish you to provide me 
with a potion that will force him to tell me the truth!ʹ 
ʹI have already told you,ʹ said Snape smoothly, ʹthat I have no further stocks of 
Veritaserum. Unless you wish to poison Potter ‐and I assure you I would have 
the greatest sympathy with you if you did ‐ I cannot help you. The only trouble is 
that most venoms act too fast to give the victim much time for truth‐telling.ʹ 
Snape looked back at Harry, who stared at him, frantic to communicate without 
words. 
Voldemortʹs got Sirius in the Department of Mysteries, he thought desperately. 
Voldemortʹs got Sirius ‐ 
ʹYou are on probation!ʹ shrieked Professor Umbridge, and Snape looked back at 
her, his eyebrows slightly raised. ʹYou are being deliberately unhelpful! I 
expected better, Lucius Malfoy always speaks most highly of you! Now get out 
of my office!ʹ 
Snape gave her an ironic bow and turned to leave. Harry knew his last chance of 
letting the Order know what was going on was walking out of the door. 
ʹHeʹs got Padfoot!ʹ he shouted. ʹHeʹs got Padfoot at the place where itʹs hidden!ʹ 
Snape had stopped with his hand on Umbridges door handle. 
ʹPadfoot?ʹ cried Professor Umbridge, looking eagerly from Harry to Snape. ʹWhat 
is Padfoot? Where what is hidden? What does he mean, Snape?ʹ 

Snape looked round at Harry. His face was inscrutable. Harry could not tell 
whether he had understood or not, but he did not dare speak more plainly in 
front of Umbridge. 
ʹI have no idea,ʹ said Snape coldly. ʹPotter, when 1 want nonsense shouted at me I 
shall give you a Babbling Beverage. And Crabbe, loosen your hold a little. If 
Longbottom suffocates it will mean a lot of tedious paperwork and I am afraid I 
shall have to mention it on your reference if ever you apply for a job.ʹ 
He closed the door behind him with a snap, leaving Harry in a state of worse 
turmoil than before: Snape had been his very last hope. He looked at Umbridge, 
who seemed to be feeling the same way; her chest was heaving with rage and 
frustration. 
ʹVery well,ʹ she said, and she pulled out her wand. ʹVery well… I am left with no 
alternative… this is more than a matter of school discipline… this is an issue of 
Ministry security… yes… yes…ʹ 
She seemed to be talking herself into something. She was shifting her weight 
nervously from foot to foot, staring at Harry, beating her wand against her 
empty palm and breathing heavily. As he watched her, Harry felt horribly 
powerless without his own wand. 
ʹYou are forcing me, Potter… I do not want to,ʹ said Umbridge, still moving 
restlessly on the spot, ʹbut sometimes circumstances justify the use… I am sure 
the Minister will understand that I had no choice 
Malfoy was watching her with a hungry expression on his face. 
The Cruciatus Curse ought to loosen your tongue,ʹ said Umbridge quietly. 
ʹNo!ʹ shrieked Hermione. ʹProfessor Umbridge ‐ itʹs illegal.ʹ 
But Umbridge took no notice. There was a nasty, eager, excited look on her face 
that Harry had never seen before. She raised her wand. 
The Minister wouldnʹt want you to break the law, Professor Umbridge!ʹ cried 
Hermione. 
ʹWhat Cornelius doesnʹt know wonʹt hurt him,ʹ said Umbridge, who was now 
panting slightly as she pointed her wand at different parts of Harryʹs body in 

turn, apparently trying to decide where it would hurt most. ʹHe never knew 1 
ordered Dementors to go after Potter last summer, but he was delighted to be 
given the chance to expel him, all the same.ʹ 
ʹIt was youT gasped Harry. ʹYou sent the Dementors after me?ʹ 
ʹSomebody had to act,ʹ breathed Umbridge, as her wand came to rest pointing 
directly at Harrys forehead. They were all bleating about silencing you somehow 
‐ discrediting you ‐ but 1 was the one who actually did something about it… only 
you wriggled out of that one, didnʹt you, Potter? Not today though, not now ‐ʹ 
And taking a deep breath, she cried, ʹCruc—ʹ 
ʹNO!ʹ shouted Hermione in a cracked voice from behind Millicent Bulstrode. ʹNo 
‐ Harry ‐ weʹll have to tell her!ʹ 
ʹNo way!ʹ yelled Harry, staring at the little of Hermione he could see. 
ʹWeʹll have to, Harry, sheʹll force it out of you anyway, whatʹs… whatʹs the 
point?ʹ 
And Hermione began to cry weakly into the back of Millicent Bulstrodeʹs robes. 
Millicent stopped trying to squash her against the wall immediately and dodged 
out of her way looking disgusted. 
ʹWell, well, well!ʹ said Umbridge, looking triumphant. ʹLittle Miss Question‐all is 
going to give us some answers! Come on then, girl, come on!ʹ 
ʹEr ‐ my ‐ nee ‐ no!ʹ shouted Ron through his gag. 
Ginny was staring at Hermione as though she had never seen her before. Neville, 
still choking for breath, was gazing at her, too. But Harry had just noticed 
something. Though Hermione was sobbing desperately into her hands, there was 
no trace of a tear. 
ʹIʹm ‐ Iʹm sorry everyone,ʹ said Hermione. ʹBut ‐ I canʹt stand it ‐ʹ 
Thatʹs right, thatʹs right, girl!ʹ said Umbridge, seizing Hermione by the shoulders, 
thrusting her into the abandoned chintz chair and leaning over her. ʹNow then… 
with whom was Potter communicating just now?ʹ 

ʹWell,ʹ gulped Hermione into her hands, ʹwell, he was trying to speak to Professor 
Dumbledore.ʹ 
Ron froze, his eyes wide; Ginny stopped trying to stamp on her Slytherin captorʹs 
toes; and even Luna looked mildly surprised. Fortunately, the attention of 
Umbridge and her minions was focused too exclusively upon Hermione to notice 
these suspicious signs. 
ʹDumbledore?ʹ said Umbridge eagerly. ʹYou know where Dumbledore is, then?ʹ 
ʹWell… no!ʹ sobbed Hermione. ʹWeʹve tried the Leaky Cauldron in Diagon Alley 
and the Three Broomsticks and even the Hogʹs Head ‐ʹ 
ʹIdiot girl ‐ Dumbledore wonʹt be sitting in a pub when the whole Ministryʹs 
looking lor him!ʹ shouted Umbridge, disappointment etched in every sagging 
line of her face. 
ʹBut ‐ but we needed to tell him something important!ʹ wailed Hermione, holding 
her hands more tightly over her face, not, Harry knew, out of anguish, but to 
disguise the continued absence of tears. 
ʹYes?ʹ said Umbridge with a sudden resurgence of excitement. ʹWhat was it you 
wanted to tell him?ʹ 
We… we wanted to tell him itʹs r ‐ ready!ʹ choked Hermione. 
Whatʹs ready?ʹ demanded Umbridge, and now she grabbed Hermioneʹs 
shoulders again and shook her slightly. Whatʹs ready, girl?ʹ 
The… the weapon,ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹWeapon? Weapon?ʹ said Umbridge, and her eyes seemed to pop with 
excitement. ʹYou have been developing some method of resistance? A weapon 
you could use against the Ministry? On Professor Dumbledoreʹs orders, of 
course?ʹ 
ʹY — y ‐ yes,ʹ gasped Hermione, ʹbut he had to leave before it was finished and n 
‐ n ‐ now weʹve finished it for him, and we c ‐ c ‐ canʹt find himʹt ‐ʹt ‐ to tell him!ʹ 
ʹWhat kind of weapon is it?ʹ said Umbridge harshly, her stubby hands still tight 
on Hermioneʹs shoulders. 

ʹWe donʹt r ‐ r ‐ really understand it,ʹ said Hermione, sniffing loudly. ʹWe j ‐ j ‐ 
just did what P ‐ P ‐ Professor Dumbledore told usʹt ‐ʹt ‐ to do.ʹ 
Umbridge straightened up, looking exultant. 
ʹLead me to the weapon,ʹ she said. 
ʹIʹm not showing… them,ʹ said Hermione shrilly, looking around at the Slytherins 
through her fingers. 
ʹIt is not for you to set conditions,ʹ said Professor Umbridge harshly. 
ʹFine,ʹ said Hermione, now sobbing into her hands again. ʹFine… let them see it, I 
hope they use it on you! In fact, I wish youʹd invite loads and loads of people to 
come and see! Th ‐ that would serve you right ‐ oh, Iʹd love it if the wh ‐ whole 
school knew where it was, and how to u ‐ use it, and then if you annoy any of 
them theyʹll be able toʹs ‐ sort you out!ʹ 
These words had a powerful impact on Umbridge: she glanced swiftly and 
suspiciously around at her Inquisitorial Squad, her bulging eyes resting for a 
moment on Malfoy, who was too slow to disguise the look of eagerness and 
greed that had appeared on his face. 
Umbridge contemplated Hermione for another long moment, then spoke in what 
she clearly thought was a motherly voice. 
ʹAll right, dear, letʹs make it just you and me… and weʹll take Potter, too, shall 
we? Get up, now.ʹ 
ʹProfessor,ʹ said Malfoy eagerly, ʹProfessor Umbridge, I think some of the Squad 
should come with you to look after ‐ʹ 
ʹI am a fully qualified Ministry official, Malfoy, do you really think I cannot 
manage two wandless teenagers alone?ʹ asked Umbridge sharply. ʹIn any case, it 
does not sound as though this weapon is something that schoolchildren should 
see. You will remain here until I return and make sure none of these ‐ʹ she 
gestured around at Ron, Ginny, Neville and Luna ʹ‐ escape.ʹ 
ʹAll right,ʹ said Malfoy, looking sulky and disappointed. 

ʹAnd you two can go ahead of me and show me the wayʹ said Umbridge, 
pointing at Harry and Hermione with her wand. ʹLead on. 
— CHAPTER THIRTY‐THREE — 
Fight and Flight
Harry had no idea what Hermione was planning, or even whether she had a 
plan. He walked half a pace behind her as they headed down the corridor 
outside Umbridgeʹs office, knowing it would look very suspicious if he appeared 
not to know where they were going. He did not dare attempt to talk to her; 
Umbridge was walking so closely behind them that he could hear her ragged 
breathing. 
Hermione led the way down the stairs into the Entrance Hall. The din of loud 
voices and the clatter of cutlery on plates echoed from out of the double doors to 
the Great Hall ‐ it seemed incredible to Harry that twenty feet away were people 
who were enjoying dinner, celebrating the end of exams, not a care in the 
world… 
Hermione walked straight out of the oak front doors and down the stone steps 
into the balmy evening air. The sun was falling towards the tops of the trees in 
the Forbidden Forest now, and as Hermione marched purposefully across the 
grass ‐ Umbridge jogging to keep up ‐ their long dark shadows rippled over the 
grass behind them like cloaks. 
ʹItʹs hidden in Hagridʹs hut, is it?ʹ said Umbridge eagerly in Harryʹs ear. 
ʹOf course not,ʹ said Hermione scathingly. ʹHagrid might have set it off 
accidentallyʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Umbridge, whose excitement seemed to be mounting. ʹYes, he would 
have done, of course, the great half‐breed oaf.ʹ 
She laughed. Harry felt a strong urge to swing round and seize her by the throat, 
but resisted. His scar was throbbing in the soft evening air but it had not yet 
burned white‐hot, as he knew it would if Voldemort had moved in for the kill. 
Then… where is it?ʹ asked Umbridge, with a hint of uncertainty in her voice as 
Hermione continued to stride towards the Forest. 

ʹIn there, of course,ʹ said Hermione, pointing into the dark trees. ʹIt had to be 
somewhere that students werenʹt going to find it accidentally, didnʹt it?ʹ 
ʹOf course,ʹ said Umbridge, though she sounded a little apprehensive now. ʹOf 
course… very well, then… you two stay ahead of me.ʹ 
ʹCan we have your wand, then, if weʹre going first?ʹ Harry asked her. 
ʹNo, I donʹt think so, Mr Potter,ʹ said Umbridge sweetly, poking him in the back 
with it. The Ministry places a rather higher value on my life than yours, Iʹm 
afraid.ʹ 
As they reached the cool shade of the first trees, Harry tried to catch Hermiones 
eye; walking into the Forest without wands seemed to him to be more foolhardy 
than anything they had done so far this evening. She, however, merely gave 
Umbridge a contemptuous glance and plunged straight into the trees, moving at 
such a pace that Umbridge, with her shorter legs, had difficulty in keeping up. 
ʹIs it very far in?ʹ Umbridge asked, as her robe ripped on a bramble. 
ʹOh yes,ʹ said Hermione, ʹyes, itʹs well hidden.ʹ 
Harryʹs misgivings increased. Hermione was not taking the path they had 
followed to visit Grawp, but the one he followed three years ago to the lair of the 
monster Aragog. Hermione had not been with him on that occasion; he doubted 
she had any idea what danger lay at the end of it. 
ʹEr ‐ are you sure this is the right way?ʹ he asked her pointedly. 
ʹOh yes,ʹ she said in a steely voice, crashing through the undergrowth with what 
he thought was a wholly unnecessary amount of noise. Behind them, Umbridge 
tripped over a fallen sapling. Neither of them paused to help her up again; 
Hermione merely strode on, calling loudly over her shoulder, ʹItʹs a bit further 
in!ʹ 
ʹHermione, keep your voice down,ʹ Harry muttered, hurrying to catch up with 
her. ʹAnything could be listening in here ‐ʹ 
ʹI want us heard,ʹ she answered quietly, as Umbridge jogged noisily after them. 
ʹYouʹll see…ʺ 

They walked on for what seemed a long time, until they were once again so deep 
into the Forest that the dense tree canopy blocked out all light. Harry had the 
feeling he had had before in the Forest, one of being watched by unseen eyes. 
ʹHow much further?ʹ demanded Umbridge angrily from behind him. 
ʹNot far now!ʹ shouted Hermione, as they emerged into a dim, dank clearing. 
ʹJust a little bit ‐ʹ 
An arrow flew through the air and landed with a menacing thud in the tree just 
over her head. The air was suddenly full of the sound of hooves; Harry could feel 
the Forest floor trembling; Umbridge gave a little scream and pushed him in 
front of her like a shield ‐ 
He wrenched himself free of her and turned. Around fifty centaurs were 
emerging on every side, their bows raised and loaded, pointing at Harry 
Hermione and Umbridge. They backed slowly into the centre of the clearing, 
Umbridge uttering odd little whimpers of terror. Harry looked sideways at 
Hermione. She was wearing a triumphant smile. 
ʹWho are you?ʹ said a voice. 
Harry looked left. The chestnut‐bodied centaur called Magorian was walking 
towards them out of the circle: his bow, like those of the others, was raised. On 
Harryʹs right, Umbridge was still whimpering, her wand trembling violently as 
she pointed it at the advancing centaur. 
ʹI asked you who are you, human,ʹ said Magorian roughly. 
ʹI am Dolores Umbridge!ʹ said Umbridge in a high‐pitched, terrified voice. 
ʹSenior Undersecretary to the Minister for Magic and Headmistress and High 
Inquisitor of Hogwarts!ʹ 
ʹYou are from the Ministry of Magic?ʹ said Magorian, as many of the centaurs in 
the surrounding circle shifted restlessly. 
Thatʹs right!ʹ said Umbridge, in an even higher voice, ʹso be very careful! By the 
laws laid down by the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical 
Creatures, any attack by half‐breeds such as yourselves on a human ‐ʹ 

ʹWhat did you call us?ʹ shouted a wild‐looking black centaur, whom Harry 
recognised as Bane. There was a great deal of angry muttering and tightening of 
bowstrings around them. 
ʹDonʹt call them that!ʹ Hermione said furiously, but Umbndge did not appear to 
have heard her. Still pointing her shaking wand at Magorian, she continued, 
ʹLaw Fifteen ʺBʺ states clearly that ʺany attack by a magical creature who is 
deemed to have near‐human intelligence, and therefore considered responsible 
for its actions —ʺʹ 
ʹʺNear‐human intelligenceʺ?ʹ repeated Magorian, as Bane and several others 
roared with rage and pawed the ground. ʹWe consider that a great insult, human! 
Our intelligence, thankfully, far outstrips your own.ʹ 
ʹWhat are you doing in our Forest?ʹ bellowed the hard‐faced grey centaur Harry 
and Hermione had seen on their last trip into the Forest. ʹWhy are you here?ʹ 
ʹYour Forest?ʹ said Umbridge, shaking now not only with fright but also, it 
seemed, with indignation. ʹI would remind you that you live here only because 
the Ministry of Magic permits you certain areas of land ‐ʹ 
An arrow flew so close to her head that it caught at her mousy hair in passing: 
she let out an ear‐splitting scream and threw her hands over her head, while 
some of the centaurs bellowed their approval and others laughed raucously. The 
sound of their wild, neighing laughter echoing around the dimly lit clearing and 
the sight of their pawing hooves was extremely unnerving. 
ʹWhose Forest is it now, human?ʹ bellowed Bane. 
ʹFilthy half‐breeds!ʹ she screamed, her hands still tight over her head. ʹBeasts! 
Uncontrolled animals!ʹ 
ʹBe quiet!ʹ shouted Hermione, but it was too late: Umbridge pointed her wand at 
Magorian and screamed, ʹIncarcerous!ʹ 
Ropes flew out of midair like thick snakes, wrapping themselves tightly around 
the centaurʹs torso and trapping his arms: he gave a cry of rage and reared on to 
his hind legs, attempting to free himself, while the other centaurs charged. 

Harry grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the ground; face down on the Forest 
floor, he knew a moment of terror as hooves thundered around him, but the 
centaurs leapt over and around them, bellowing and screaming with rage. 
ʹNooooo!ʹ he heard Umbridge shriek. ʹNoooooo… I am Senior 
Undersecretary… you cannot ‐ Unhand me, you animals… nooooo!ʹ 
Harry saw a flash of red light and knew she had attempted to Stun one of them; 
then she screamed very loudly. Lifting his head a few inches, Harry saw that 
Umbridge had been seized from behind by Bane and lifted high into the air, 
wriggling and yelling with fright. Her wand fell from her hand to the ground, 
and Harryʹs heart leapt. If he could just reach it ‐ 
But as he stretched out a hand towards it, a centaurʹs hoof descended upon the 
wand and it broke cleanly in half. 
ʹNow!ʹ roared a voice in Harryʹs ear and a thick hairy arm descended from thin 
air and dragged him upright. Hermione, too, had been pulled to her feet. Over 
the plunging, many‐coloured backs and heads of the centaurs, Harry saw 
Umbridge being borne away through the trees by Bane. Screaming non‐stop, her 
voice grew fainter and fainter until they could no longer hear it over the 
trampling of hooves surrounding them. 
ʹAnd these?ʹ said the hard‐faced, grey centaur holding Hermione. 
They are young,ʹ said a slow, doleful voice from behind Harry. ʹWe do not attack 
foals.ʹ 
They brought her here, Ronan,ʹ replied the centaur who had such a firm grip on 
Harry. ʹAnd they are not so young… he is nearing manhood, this one.ʹ 
He shook Harry by the neck of his robes. 
ʹPlease,ʹ said Hermione breathlessly, ʹplease, donʹt attack us, we donʹt think like 
her, we arenʹt Ministry of Magic employees! We only came in here because we 
hoped youʹd drive her off for us.ʹ 
Harry knew at once, from the look on the face of the grey centaur holding 
Hermione, that she had made a terrible mistake in saying this. The grey centaur 
threw back his head, his back legs stamping furiously, and bellowed, ʹYou see, 

Ronan? They already have the arrogance of their kind! So we were to do your 
dirty work, were we, human girl? We were to act as your servants, drive away 
your enemies like obedient hounds?ʹ 
ʹNo!ʹ said Hermione in a horrorstruck squeak. ʹPlease ‐ I didnʹt mean that! I just 
hoped youʹd be able to ‐ to help us ‐ʹ 
But she seemed to be going from bad to worse. 
ʹWe do not help humans!ʹ snarled the centaur holding Harry, tightening his grip 
and rearing a little at the same time, so that Harryʹs feet left the ground 
momentarily. ʹWe are a race apart and proud to be so. We will not permit you to 
walk from here, boasting that we did your bidding!ʹ 
ʹWeʹre not going to say anything like that!ʹ Harry shouted. ʹWe know you didnʹt 
do what you did because we wanted you to ‐ʹ 
But nobody seemed to be listening to him. 
A bearded centaur towards the back of the crowd shouted, They came here 
unasked, they must pay the consequences!ʹ 
A roar of approval met these words and a dun‐coloured centaur shouted, They 
can join the woman!ʹ 
ʹYou said you didnʹt hurt the innocent!ʹ shouted Hermione, real tears sliding 
down her face now. ʹWe havenʹt done anything to hurt you, we havenʹt used 
wands or threats, we just want to go back to school, please let us go back ‐ʹ 
ʹWe are not all like the traitor Firenze, human girl!ʹ shouted the grey centaur, to 
more neighing roars of approval from his fellows. ʹPerhaps you thought us pretty 
talking horses? We are an ancient people who will not stand wizard invasions 
and insults! We do not recognise your laws, we do not acknowledge your 
superiority, we are ‐ʹ 
But they did not hear what else centaurs were, for at that moment there came a 
crashing noise on the edge of the clearing so loud that all of them, Harry, 
Hermione and the filty or so centaurs filling the clearing, looked around. Harryʹs 
centaur let him fall to the ground again as his hands flew to his bow and quiver 
of arrows. Hermione had been dropped, too, and Harry hurried towards her as 

two thick tree trunks parted ominously and the monstrous form of Grawp the 
giant appeared in the gap. 
The centaurs nearest him backed into those behind; the clearing was now a forest 
of bows and arrows waiting to be fired, all pointing upwards at the enormous 
greyish face now looming over them from just beneath the thick canopy of 
branches. Grawpʹs lopsided mouth was gaping stupidly; they could see his 
bricklike yellow teeth glimmering in the half‐light, his dull sludge‐coloured eyes 
narrowed as he squinted down at the creatures at his feet. Broken ropes trailed 
from both ankles. 
He opened his mouth even wider. 
ʹHagger.ʹ 
Harry did not know what ʹhaggerʹ meant, or what language it was from, nor did 
he much care; he was watching Grawpʹs feet, which were almost as long as 
Harryʹs whole body. Hermione gripped his arm tightly; the centaurs were quite 
silent, staring up at the giant, whose huge, round head moved from side to side 
as he continued to peer amongst them as though looking for something he had 
dropped. 
ʹHagger!ʹ he said again, more insistently. 
ʹGet away from here, giant!ʹ called Magorian. ʹYou are not welcome among us!ʹ 
These words seemed to make no impression whatsoever on Grawp. He stooped 
a little (the centaursʹ arms tensed on their bows), then bellowed, ʹHAGGER!ʹ 
A few of the centaurs looked worried now. Hermione, however, gave a gasp. 
ʹHarry!ʹ she whispered. ʹI think heʹs trying to say ʺHagridʺ!ʹ 
At this precise moment Grawp caught sight of them, the only two humans in a 
sea of centaurs. He lowered his head another foot or so, staring intently at them. 
Harry could feel Hermione shaking as Grawp opened his mouth wide again and 
said, in a deep, rumbling voice, ʹHermy.ʹ 
ʹGoodness,ʹ said Hermione, gripping Harryʹs arm so tightly it was growing numb 
and looking as though she was about to faint, ʹhe ‐ he remembered!ʹ 

ʹHERMY!ʹ roared Grawp. ʹWHERE HAGGER?ʹ 
ʹI donʹt know!ʹ squealed Hermione, terrified. ʹIʹm sorry, Grawp, I donʹt know!ʹ 
ʹGRAWP WANT HAGGER!ʹ 
One of the giantʹs massive hands reached down. Hermione let out a real scream, 
ran a few steps backwards and fell over. Devoid of a wand, Harry braced himself 
to punch, kick, bite or whatever else it took as the hand swooped towards him 
and knocked a snow‐white centaur off his legs. 
It was what the centaurs had been waiting for — Grawpʹs outstretched fingers 
were a foot from Harry when fifty arrows soared through the air at the giant, 
peppering his enormous face, causing him to howl with pain and rage and 
straighten up, rubbing his face with his enormous hands, breaking off the arrow 
shafts but forcing the arrowheads in still deeper. 
He yelled and stamped his enormous feet and the centaurs scattered out of the 
way; pebble‐sized droplets of Grawpʹs blood showered Harry as he pulled 
Hermione to her feet and the pair of them ran as fast as they could for the shelter 
of the trees. Once there they looked back; Grawp was snatching blindly at the 
centaurs as blood ran down his face; they were retreating in disorder, galloping 
away through the trees on the other side of the clearing. Harry and Hermione 
watched Grawp give another roar of fury and plunge after them, smashing more 
trees aside as he went. 
ʹOh no,ʹ said Hermione, quaking so badly that her knees gave way. ʹOh, that was 
horrible. And he might kill them all.ʹ 
ʹIʹm not that fussed, to be honest,ʹ said Harry bitterly. 
The sounds of the galloping centaurs and the blundering giant grew fainter and 
fainter. As Harry listened to them, his scar gave another great throb and a wave 
of terror swept over him. 
They had wasted so much time ‐ they were even further from rescuing Sirius 
than they had been when he had had the vision. Not only had Harry managed to 
lose his wand but they were stuck in the middle of the Forbidden Forest with no 
means of transport whatsoever. 

ʹSmart plan,ʹ he spat at Hermione, having to release some of his fury. ʹReally 
smart plan. Where do we go from here?ʹ 
ʹWe need to get back up to the castle,ʹ said Hermione faintly. 
ʹBy the time weʹve done that, Siriusʹll probably be dead!ʹ said Harry, kicking a 
nearby tree in temper. A high‐pitched chattering started up overhead and he 
looked up to see an angry Bowtruckle flexing its long twiglike fingers at him. 
ʹWell, we canʹt do anything without wands,ʹ said Hermione hopelessly, dragging 
herself up again. ʹAnyway, Harry, how exactly were you planning to get all the 
way to London?ʹ 
ʹYeah, we were just wondering that,ʹ said a familiar voice from behind her. 
Harry and Hermione moved together instinctively and peered through the trees. 
Ron came into sight, closely followed by Ginny, Neville and Luna. All of them 
looked a little the worse for wear ‐ there were several long scratches running the 
length of Ginnyʹs cheek; a large purple lump was swelling above Nevilleʹs right 
eye; Ronʹs lip was bleeding worse than ever ‐ but all were looking rather pleased 
with themselves. 
ʹSo,ʹ said Ron, pushing aside a low‐hanging branch and holding out Harryʹs 
wand, ʹhad any ideas?ʹ 
ʹHow did you get away?ʹ asked Harry in amazement, taking his wand from Ron. 
ʹCouple of Stunners, a Disarming Charm, Neville brought off a really nice little 
Impediment Jinx,ʹ said Ron airily, now handing back Hermioneʹs wand, too. ʹBut 
Ginny was best, she got Malfoy ‐ Bat Bogey Hex ‐ it was superb, his whole face 
was covered in the great flapping things. Anyway, we saw you out of the 
window heading into the Forest and followed. Whatʹve you done with 
Umbridge?ʹ 
ʹShe got carried away,ʹ said Harry. ʹBy a herd of centaurs.ʹ 
ʹAnd they left you behind?ʹ asked Ginny, looking astonished. 
ʹNo, they got chased off by Grawp,ʹ said Harry 

ʹWhoʹs Grawp?ʹ Luna asked interestedly. 
ʹHagridʹs little brother,ʹ said Ron promptly. ʹAnyway, never mind that now. 
Harry, what did you find out in the fire? Has You‐Know‐Who got Sirius or ‐?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Harry, as his scar gave another painful prickle, ʹand Iʹm sure Sirius is 
still alive, but I canʹt see how weʹre going to get there to help him.ʹ 
They all fell silent, looking rather scared; the problem facing them seemed 
insurmountable. 
ʹWell, weʹll have to fly, wonʹt we?ʹ said Luna, in the closest thing to a matter‐of‐
fact voice Harry had ever heard her use. 
ʹOK,ʹ said Harry irritably, rounding on her. ʹFirst of all, ʺweʺ arenʹt doing 
anything if youʹre including yourself in that, and second of all, Ronʹs the only 
one with a broomstick that isnʹt being guarded by a security troll, so ‐ʹ 
ʹIʹve got a broom!ʹ said Ginny. 
ʹYeah, but youʹre not coming,ʹ said Ron angrily. 
ʹExcuse me, but 1 care what happens to Sirius as much as you do!ʹ said Ginny, 
her jaw set so that her resemblance to Fred and George was suddenly striking. 
ʹYouʹre too ‐ʹ Harry began, but Ginny said fiercely, ʹIʹm three years older than 
you were when you fought You‐Know‐Who over the Philosopherʹs Stone, and 
itʹs because of me that Malfoyʹs stuck back in Umbridgeʹs office with giant flying 
bogies attacking him ‐ʹ 
ʹYeah, but ‐ʹ 
ʹWe were all in the DA together,ʹ said Neville quietly. ʹIt was all supposed to be 
about fighting You‐Know‐Who, wasnʹt it? And this is the first chance weʹve had 
to do something real ‐ or was that all just a game or something?ʹ 
ʹNo — of course it wasnʹt ‐ʹ said Harry impatiently. 
Then we should come too,ʹ said Neville simply. ʹWe want to help.ʹ 
Thatʹs right,ʹ said Luna, smiling happily. 

Harryʹs eyes met Ronʹs. He knew Ron was thinking exactly what he was: if he 
could have chosen any members of the DA, in addition to himself, Ron and 
Hermione, to join him in the attempt to rescue Sirius, he would not have picked 
Ginny, Neville or Luna. 
ʹWell, it doesnʹt matter, anyway,ʹ said Harry through gritted teeth, ʹbecause we 
still donʹt know how to get there ‐ʹ 
ʹI thought weʹd settled that,ʹ said Luna maddeningly. ʹWeʹre flying!ʹ 
ʹLook,ʹ said Ron, barely containing his anger, ʹyou might be able to fly without a 
broomstick but the rest of us canʹt sprout wings whenever we ‐ʹ 
There are ways of flying other than with broomsticks,ʹ said Luna serenely. 
ʹIʹsʹpose weʹre going to ride on the back of the Kacky Snorgle or whatever it is?ʹ 
Ron demanded. 
The Crumple‐Horned Snorkack canʹt fly,ʹ said Luna in a dignified voice, ʹbut they 
can, and Hagrid says theyʹre very good at finding places their riders are looking 
for.ʹ 
Harry whirled round. Standing between two trees, their white eyes gleaming 
eerily, were two Thestrals, watching the whispered conversation as though they 
understood every word, 
ʹYes!ʹ he whispered, moving towards them. They tossed their reptilian heads, 
throwing back long black manes, and Harry stretched out his hand eagerly and 
patted the nearest oneʹs shining neck; how could he ever have thought them 
ugly? 
ʹIs it those mad horse things?ʹ said Ron uncertainly, staring at a point slightly to 
the left of the Thestral Harry was patting. Those ones you canʹt see unless youʹve 
watched someone snuff it?ʹ 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹHow many?ʹ 
ʹJust two.ʹ 

ʹWell, we need three,ʹ said Hermione, who was still looking a little shaken, but 
determined just the same. 
Tour, Hermione,ʹ said Ginny, scowling. 
ʹI think there are six of us, actually,ʹ said Luna calmly, counting. 
ʹDonʹt be stupid, we canʹt all go!ʹ said Harry angrily. ʹLook, you three ‐ʹ he 
pointed at Neville, Ginny and Luna, ʹyouʹre not involved in this, youʹre not ‐ʹ 
They burst into more protests. His scar gave another, more painful, twinge. 
Every moment they delayed was precious; he did not have time to argue. 
ʹOK, fine, itʹs your choice,ʹ he said curtly, ʹbut unless we can find more Thestrals 
youʹre not going to be able ‐ʹ 
ʹOh, more of them will come,ʹ said Ginny confidently, who like Ron was 
squinting in quite the wrong direction, apparently under the impression that she 
was looking at the horses. 
ʹWhat makes you think that?ʹ 
ʹBecause, in case you hadnʹt noticed, you and Hermione are both covered in 
blood,ʹ she said coolly, ʹand we know Hagrid lures Thestrals with raw meat. 
Thatʹs probably why these two turned up in the first place.ʹ 
Harry felt a soft tug on his robes at that moment and looked down to see the 
closest Thestral licking his sleeve, which was damp with Grawpʹs blood. 
ʹOK, then,ʹ he said, a bright idea occurring, ʹRon and 1 will take these two and go 
ahead, and Hermione can stay here with you three and sheʹll attract more 
Thestrals ‐ʹ 
ʹIʹm not staying behind!ʹ said Hermione furiously. 
Thereʹs no need,ʹ said Luna, smiling. ʹLook, here come more now… you two 
must really smell…ʹ 
Harry turned: no fewer than six or seven Thestrals were picking their way 
through the trees, their great leathery wings folded tight to their bodies, their 
eyes gleaming through the darkness. He had no excuse now. 

ʹAll right,ʹ he said angrily, ʹpick one and get on, then.ʹ 
— CHAPTER THIRTY‐FOUR — 
The Department of Mysteries
Harry wound his hand tightly into the mane of the nearest Thestral, placed a foot 
on a stump nearby and scrambled clumsily on to the horses silken back. It did 
not object, but twisted its head around, fangs bared, and attempted to continue 
its eager licking of his robes. 
He found there was a way of lodging his knees behind the wing joints that made 
him feel more secure, then looked around at the others. Neville had heaved 
himself over the back of the next Thestral and was now attempting to swing one 
short leg over the creatureʹs back. Luna was already in place, sitting side‐saddle 
and adjusting her robes as though she did this every day. Ron, Hermione and 
Ginny, however, were still standing motionless on the spot, open‐mouthed and 
staring. 
ʹWhat?ʹ he said. 
ʹHowʹre we supposed to get on?ʹ said Ron faintly. ʹWhen we canʹt see the things?ʹ 
ʹOh, itʹs easy,ʹ said Luna, sliding obligingly from her Thestral and marching over 
to him, Hermione and Ginny. ʹCome here…ʹ 
She pulled them over to the other Thestrals standing around and one by one 
managed to help them on to the back of their mount. All three looked extremely 
nervous as she wound their hands into their horses mane and told them to grip 
tightly before she got back on to her own steed. 
This is mad,ʹ Ron murmured, moving his free hand gingerly up and down his 
horseʹs neck. ʹMad… if I could just see it ‐ʹ 
ʹYouʹd better hope it stays invisible,ʹ said Harry darkly. ʹWe all ready, then?ʹ 
They all nodded and he saw five pairs of knees tighten beneath their robes. 
ʹOK…ʹ 
He looked down at the back of his Thestralʹs glossy black head and swallowed. 

ʹMinistry of Magic, visitorsʹ entrance, London, then,ʹ he said uncertainly. ʹEr… if 
you know… where to go…ʺ 
For a moment Harryʹs Thestral did nothing at all; then, with a sweeping 
movement that nearly unseated him, the wings on either side extended; the horse 
crouched slowly, then rocketed upwards so fast and so steeply that Harry had to 
clench his arms and legs tightly around the horse to avoid sliding backwards 
over its bony rump. He closed his eyes and pressed his face down into the 
horseʹs silky mane as they burst through the topmost branches of the trees and 
soared out into a blood‐red sunset. 
Harry did not think he had ever moved so fast: the Thestral streaked over the 
castle, its wide wings hardly beating; the cooling air was slapping Harryʹs face; 
eyes screwed up against the rushing wind, he looked round and saw his five 
fellows soaring along behind him, each of them bent as low as possible into the 
neck of their Thestral to protect themselves from his slipstream. 
They were over the Hogwarts grounds, they had passed Hogsmeade; Harry 
could see mountains and gullies below them. As the daylight began to fail, Harry 
saw small collections of lights as they passed over more villages, then a winding 
road on which a single car was beetling its way home through the hills… 
This is bizarre!ʹ Harry barely heard Ron yell from somewhere behind him, and 
he imagined how it must feel to be speeding along at this height with no visible 
means of support. 
Twilight fell: the sky was turning to a light, dusky purple littered with tiny silver 
stars, and soon only the lights of Muggle towns gave them any clue of how far 
from the ground they were, or how very fast they were travelling. Harryʹs arms 
were wrapped tightly around his horses neck as he willed it to go even faster. 
How much time had elapsed since he had seen Sirius lying on the Department of 
Mysteries floor? How much longer would Sinus be able to resist Voldemort? All 
Harry knew for sure was that his godfather had neither done as Voldemort 
wanted, nor died, for he was convinced that either outcome would have caused 
him to feel Voldemortʹs jubilation or fury course through his own body, making 
his scar sear as painfully as it had on the night Mr Weasley was attacked. 
On they flew through the gathering darkness; Harryʹs face felt stiff and cold, his 
legs numb from gripping the Thestrals sides so tightly, but he did not dare shift 
his position lest he slip… he was deaf from the thundering rush of air in his ears, 

and his mouth was dry and frozen from the cold night wind. He had lost all 
sense of how far they had come; all his faith was in the beast beneath him, still 
streaking purposefully through the night, barely flapping its wings as it sped 
ever onwards. 
If they were too late… 
Heʹs still alive, heʹs still fighting, I can feel it… 
If Voldemort decided Sirius was not going to crack… 
Iʹd know…
Harrys stomach gave a jolt; the Thestrals head was suddenly pointing towards 
the ground and he actually slid forwards a few inches along its neck. They were 
descending at last… he thought he heard a shriek behind him and twisted 
around dangerously, but could see no sign of a falling body .ʹ.. presumably they 
had all received a shock from the change of direction, just as he had. 
And now bright orange lights were growing larger and rounder on all sides; they 
could see the tops of buildings, streams of headlights like luminous insect eyes, 
squares of pale yellow that were windows. Quite suddenly, it seemed, they were 
hurtling towards the pavement; Harry gripped the Thestral with every last ounce 
of his strength, braced for a sudden impact, but the horse touched the dark 
ground as lightly as a shadow and Harry slid from its back, looking around at 
the street where the overflowing skip still stood a short way from the vandalised 
telephone box, both drained of colour in the flat orange glare of the streetlights. 
Ron landed a short way off and toppled immediately from his Thestral on to the 
pavement. 
ʹNever again,ʹ he said, struggling to his feet. He made as though to stride away 
from his Thestral, but, unable to see it, collided with its hindquarters and almost 
fell over again. ʹNever, ever again… that was the worst ‐ʹ 
Hermione and Ginny touched down on either side of him: both slid off their 
mounts a little more gracefully than Ron, though with similar expressions of 
relief at being back on firm ground; Neville jumped down, shaking; and Luna 
dismounted smoothly. 

ʹWhere do we go from here, then?ʹ she asked Harry in a politely interested voice, 
as though this was all a rather interesting day‐trip. 
ʹOver here,ʹ he said. He gave his Thestral a quick, grateful pat, then led the way 
quickly to the battered telephone box and opened the door. ʹCome on!ʹ he urged 
the others, as they hesitated. 
Ron and Ginny marched in obediently; Hermione, Neville and Luna squashed 
themselves in after them; Harry took one glance back at the Thestrals, now 
foraging for scraps of rotten food inside the skip, then forced himself into the box 
after Luna. 
ʹWhoeverʹs nearest the receiver, dial six two four four two!ʹ he said. 
Ron did it, his arm bent bizarrely to reach the dial; as it whirred back into place 
the cool female voice sounded inside the box. 
ʹWelcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and business.ʹ 
ʹHarry Potter, Ron Weasley Hermione Granger,ʹ Harry said very quickly, ʹGinny 
Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood… weʹre here to save someone, 
unless your Ministry can do it first!ʹ 
Thank you,ʹ said the cool female voice. ʹVisitors, please take the badges and 
attach them to the front of your robes.ʹ 
Half a dozen badges slid out of the metal chute where returned coins normally 
appeared. Hermione scooped them up and handed them mutely to Harry over 
Ginnyʹs head; he glanced at the topmost one, Harry Potter, Rescue Mission. 
ʹVisitors to the Ministry, you are required to submit to a search and present your 
wands for registration at the security desk, which is located at the far end of the 
Atrium.ʹ 
ʹFine!ʹ Harry said loudly, as his scar gave another throb. ʹNow can we move?ʹ 
The floor of the telephone box shuddered and the pavement rose up past its glass 
windows; the scavenging Thestrals were sliding out of sight; blackness closed 
over their heads and with a dull grinding noise they sank down into the depths 
of the Ministry of Magic. 

A chink of soft golden light hit their feet and, widening, rose up their bodies. 
Harry bent his knees and held his wand as ready as he could in such cramped 
conditions as he peered through the glass to see whether anybody was waiting 
for them in the Atrium, but it seemed to be completely empty. The light was 
dimmer than it had been by day; there were no fires burning under the 
mantelpieces set into the walls, but as the lift slid smoothly to a halt he saw that 
golden symbols continued to twist sinuously in the dark blue ceiling. 
The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant evening,ʹ said the womanʹs voice. 
The door of the telephone box burst open; Harry toppled out of it, closely 
followed by Neville and Luna. The only sound in the Atrium was the steady 
rush of water from the golden fountain, where jets from the wands of the witch 
and wizard, the point of the centaurʹs arrow, the tip of the goblinʹs hat and the 
house‐elfʹs ears continued to gush into the surrounding pool. 
ʹCome on,ʹ said Harry quietly and the six of them sprinted off down the hall, 
Harry in the lead, past the fountain towards the desk where the watchwizard 
who had weighed Harryʹs wand had sat, and which was now deserted. 
Harry felt sure there ought to be a security person there, sure their absence was 
an ominous sign, and his feeling of foreboding increased as they passed through 
the golden gates to the lifts. He pressed the nearest ʹdownʹ button and a lift 
clattered into sight almost immediately, the golden grilles slid apart with a great, 
echoing clanking and they dashed inside. Harry stabbed the number nine button; 
the grilles closed with a bang and the lift began to descend, jangling and rattling. 
Harry had not realised how noisy the lifts were on the day he had come with Mr 
Weasley; he was sure the din would raise every security person within the 
building, yet when the lift halted, the cool female voice said, ʹDepartment of 
Mysteries,ʹ and the grilles slid open. They stepped out into the corridor where 
nothing was moving but the nearest torches, flickering in the rush of air from the 
lift. 
Harry turned towards the plain black door. After months and months of 
dreaming about it, he was here at last. 
ʹLetʹs go,ʹ he whispered, and he led the way down the corridor, Luna right 
behind him, gazing around with her mouth slightly open. 

ʹOK, listen,ʹ said Harry stopping again within six feet of the door. ʹMaybe… 
maybe a couple of people should stay here as a — as a lookout, and ‐ʹ 
ʹAnd howʹre we going to let you know somethingʹs coming?ʹ asked Ginny, her 
eyebrows raised. ʹYou could be miles away.ʹ 
ʹWeʹre coming with you, Harry,ʹ said Neville. 
ʹLetʹs get on with it,ʹ said Ron firmly. 
Harry still did not want to take them all with him, but it seemed he had no 
choice. He turned to face the door and walked forwards… just as it had in his 
dream, it swung open and he marched over the threshold, the others at his heels. 
They were standing in a large, circular room. Everything in here was black 
including the floor and ceiling; identical, unmarked, handleless black doors were 
set at intervals all around the black walls, interspersed with branches of candles 
whose flames burned blue; their cool, shimmering light reflected in the shining 
marble floor made it look as though there was dark water underfoot. 
ʹSomeone shut the door,ʹ Harry muttered. 
He regretted giving this order the moment Neville had obeyed it. Without the 
long chink of light from the torchlit corridor behind them, the place became so 
dark that for a moment the only things they could see were the bunches of 
shivering blue flames on the walls and their ghostly reflections in the floor. 
In his dream, Harry had always walked purposefully across this room to the 
door immediately opposite the entrance and walked on. But there were around a 
dozen doors here. Just as he was gazing ahead at the doors opposite him, trying 
to decide which was the right one, there was a great rumbling noise and the 
candles began to move sideways. The circular wall was rotating. 
Hermione grabbed Harryʹs arm as though frightened the floor might move, too, 
but it did not. For a few seconds, the blue flames around them were blurred to 
resemble neon lines as the wall sped around; then, quite as suddenly as it had 
started, the rumbling stopped and everything became stationary once again. 
Harryʹs eyes had blue streaks burned into them; it was all he could see. 
ʹWhat was that about?ʹ whispered Ron fearfully. 

ʹI think it was to stop us knowing which door we came in through,ʹ said Ginny in 
a hushed voice. 
Harry realised at once she was right: he could no sooner identify the exit door 
than locate an ant on the jet‐black floor; and the door through which they needed 
to proceed could be any one of the dozen surrounding them. 
ʹHowʹre we going to get back out?ʹ said Neville uncomfortably. 
ʹWell, that doesnʹt matter now,ʹ said Harry forcefully, blinking to try to erase the 
blue lines from his vision, and clutching his wand tighter than ever, ʹwe wonʹt 
need to get out till weʹve found Sinus ‐ʹ 
ʹDonʹt go calling for him, though!ʹ Hermione said urgently; but Harry had never 
needed her advice less, his instinct was to keep as quiet as possible. 
ʹWhere do we go, then, Harry?ʹ Ron asked. 
ʹI donʹt ‐ʹ Harry began. He swallowed. ʹIn the dreams I went through the door at 
the end of the corridor from the lifts into a dark room ‐ thatʹs this one ‐ and then I 
went through another door into a room that kind of… glitters. We should try a 
few doors,ʹ he said hastily, ʹIʹll know the right way when I see it. Cʹmon.ʹ 
He marched straight at the door now facing him, the others following close 
behind him, set his left hand against its cool, shining surface, raised his wand 
ready to strike the moment it opened, and pushed. 
It swung open easily. 
After the darkness of the first room, the lamps hanging low on golden chains 
from this ceiling gave the impression that this long rectangular room was much 
brighter, though there were no glittering, shimmering lights as Harry had seen in 
his dreams. The place was quite empty except for a few desks and, in the very 
middle of the room, an enormous glass tank of deep green liquid, big enough for 
all of them to swim in; a number of pearly‐white objects were drifting around 
lazily in it. 
ʹWhatʹre those things?ʹ whispered Ron. 
ʹDunno,ʹ said Harry. 

ʹAre they fish?ʹ breathed Ginny. 
ʹAquavirius Maggots!ʹ said Luna excitedly. ʹDad said the Ministry were breeding 
—ʹ 
ʹNo,ʹ said Hermione. She sounded odd. She moved forward to look through the 
side of the tank. Theyʹre brains.ʹ 
ʹBrains?ʹ
ʹYes… I wonder what theyʹre doing with them?ʹ 
Harry joined her at the tank. Sure enough, there could be no mistake now he saw 
them at close quarters. Glimmering eerily, they drifted in and out of sight in the 
depths of the green liquid, looking something like slimy cauliflowers. 
ʹLetʹs get out of here,ʹ said Harry. This isnʹt right, we need to try another door.ʹ 
There are doors here, too,ʹ said Ron, pointing around the walls. Harryʹs heart 
sank; how big was this place? 
ʹIn my dream I went through that dark room into the second one,ʹ he said. ʹI 
think we should go back and try from there.ʹ 
So they hurried back into the dark, circular room; the ghostly shapes of the 
brains were now swimming before Harryʹs eyes instead of the blue candle 
flames. 
ʹWait!ʹ said Hermione sharply, as Luna made to close the door of the brain room 
behind them. ʹFlagrate!ʹ 
She drew with her wand in midair and a fiery ʹXʹ appeared on the door. No 
sooner had the door clicked shut behind them than there was a great rumbling, 
and once again the wall began to revolve very fast, but now there was a great 
red‐gold blur in amongst the faint blue and, when all became still again, the fiery 
cross still burned, showing the door they had already tried. 
ʹGood thinking,ʹ said Harry. ʹOK, letʹs try this one ‐ʹ 
Again, he strode directly at the door facing him and pushed it open, his wand 
still raised, the others at his heels. 

This room was larger than the last, dimly lit and rectangular, and the centre of it 
was sunken, forming a great stone pit some twenty feet deep. They were 
standing on the topmost tier of what seemed to be stone benches running all 
around the room and descending in steep steps like an amphitheatre, or the 
courtroom in which Harry had been tried by the Wizengamot. Instead of a 
chained chair, however, there was a raised stone dais in the centre of the pit, on 
which stood a stone archway that looked so ancient, cracked and crumbling that 
Harry was amazed the thing was still standing. Unsupported by any 
surrounding wall, the archway was hung with a tattered black curtain or veil 
which, despite the complete stillness of the cold surrounding air, was fluttering 
very slightly as though it had just been touched. 
ʹWhoʹs there?ʹ said Harry, jumping down on to the bench below. There was no 
answering voice, but the veil continued to flutter and sway. 
ʹCareful!ʹ whispered Hermione. 
Harry scrambled down the benches one by one until he reached the stone bottom 
of the sunken pit. His footsteps echoed loudly as he walked slowly towards the 
dais. The pointed archway looked much taller from where he now stood than it 
had when heʹd been looking down on it from above. Still the veil swayed gently, 
as though somebody had just passed through it. 
ʹSirius?ʹ Harry spoke again, but more quietly now that he was nearer. 
He had the strangest feeling that there was someone standing right behind the 
veil on the other side of the archway. Gripping his wand very tightly, he edged 
around the dais, but there was nobody there; all that could be seen was the other 
side of the tattered black veil. 
ʹLetʹs go,ʹ called Hermione from halfway up the stone steps. This isnʹt right, 
Harry, come on, letʹs go.ʹ 
She sounded scared, much more scared than she had in the room where the 
brains swam, yet Harry thought the archway had a kind of beauty about it, old 
though it was. The gently rippling veil intrigued him; he felt a very strong 
inclination to climb up on the dais and walk through it. 
ʹHarry, letʹs go, OK?ʹ said Hermione more forcefully. 

ʹOK,ʹ he said, but did not move. He had just heard something. There were faint 
whispering, murmuring noises coming from the other side of the veil. 
ʹWhat are you saying?ʹ he said, very loudly, so that his words echoed all around 
the stone benches. 
ʹNobodyʹs talking, Harry!ʹ said Hermione, now moving over to him. 
ʹSomeoneʹs whispering behind there,ʹ he said, moving out of her reach and 
continuing to frown at the veil. ʹIs that you, Ron?ʹ 
ʹIʹm here, mate,ʹ said Ron, appearing around the side of the archway. 
ʹCanʹt anyone else hear it?ʹ Harry demanded, for the whispering and murmuring 
was becoming louder; without really meaning to put it there, he found his foot 
was on the dais. 
ʹI can hear them too,ʹ breathed Luna, joining them around the side of the 
archway and gazing at the swaying veil. There are people in there!ʹ 
ʹWhat do you mean, ʺin thereʺ?ʹ demanded Hermione, jumping down from the 
bottom step and sounding much angrier than the occasion warranted, ʹthere isnʹt 
any ʺin thereʺ, itʹs just an archway, thereʹs no room for anybody to be there. 
Harry, stop it, come away ‐ʹ 
She grabbed his arm and pulled, but he resisted. 
ʹHarry, we are supposed to be here for Sirius!ʹ she said in a high‐pitched, strained 
voice. 
ʹSirius,ʹ Harry repeated, still gazing, mesmerised, at the continuously swaying 
veil. ʹYeah…ʹ 
Something finally slid back into place in his brain; Sirius, captured, bound and 
tortured, and he was staring at this archway… 
He took several paces back from the dais and wrenched his eyes from the veil. 
ʹLetʹs go,ʹ he said. 

Thatʹs what Iʹve been trying to ‐ well, come on, then!ʹ said Hermione, and she led 
the way back around the dais. On the other side, Ginny and Neville were staring, 
apparently entranced, at the veil too. Without speaking, Hermione took hold of 
Ginnyʹs arm, 
J^^^jj l^^w 
Ron grabbed Nevilleʹs, and they marched them firmly back to the lowest stone 
bench and clambered all the way back up to the door. 
ʹWhat dʹyou reckon that arch was?ʹ Harry asked Hermione as they regained the 
dark circular room. 
ʹI donʹt know, but whatever it was, it was dangerous,ʹ she said firmly, again 
inscribing a fiery cross on the door. 
Once more, the wall span and became still again. Harry approached another 
door at random and pushed. It did not move. 
ʹWhatʹs wrong?ʹ said Hermione. 
ʹItʹs… locked…ʹ said Harry, throwing his weight at the door, but it didnʹt budge. 
This is it, then, isnʹt it?ʹ said Ron excitedly, joining Harry in the attempt to force 
the door open. ʹBound to be!ʹ 
ʹGet out of the way!ʹ said Hermione sharply. She pointed her wand at the place 
where a lock would have been on an ordinary door and said, ʹAlohomora!ʹ 
Nothing happened. 
ʹSiriusʹs knife!ʹ said Harry. He pulled it out from inside his robes and slid it into 
the crack between the door and the wall. The others all watched eagerly as he ran 
it from top to bottom, withdrew it and then flung his shoulder again at the door. 
It remained as firmly shut as ever. What was more, when Harry looked down at 
the knife, he saw the blade had melted. 
ʹRight, weʹre leaving that room,ʹ said Hermione decisively. 
ʹBut what if thatʹs the one?ʹ said Ron, staring at it with a mixture of apprehension 
and longing. 

ʹIt canʹt be, Harry could get through all the doors in his dream,ʹ said Hermione, 
marking the door with another fiery cross as Harry replaced the now‐useless 
handle of Siriusʹs knife in his pocket. 
ʹYou know what could be in there?ʹ said Luna eagerly, as the wall started to spin 
yet again. 
ʹSomething blibbering, no doubt,ʹ said Hermione under her breath and Neville 
gave a nervous little laugh. 
The wall slid to a halt and Harry, with a feeling of increasing desperation, 
pushed the next door open. 
This is it!ʹ 
He knew it at once by the beautiful, dancing, diamond‐sparkling light. As Harrys 
eyes became accustomed to the brilliant glare, he saw clocks gleaming from 
every surface, large and small, grandfather and carriage, hanging in spaces 
between the bookcases or standing on desks ranging the length of the room, so 
that a busy, relentless ticking filled the place like thousands of minuscule, 
marching footsteps. The source of the dancing, diamond‐bright light was a 
towering crystal bell jar that stood at the far end of the room. 
This way!ʹ 
Harryʹs heart was pumping frantically now that he knew they were on the right 
track; he led the way down the narrow space between the lines of desks, 
heading, as he had done in his dream, for the source of the light, the crystal bell 
jar quite as tall as he was that stood on a desk and appeared to be full of a 
billowing, glittering wind. 
ʹOh, looklʹ said Ginny, as they drew nearer, pointing at the very heart of the bell 
jar. 
Drifting along in the sparkling current inside was a tiny, jewel‐bright egg. As it 
rose in the jar, it cracked open and a hummingbird emerged, which was carried 
to the very top of the jar, but as it fell on the draught its feathers became 
bedraggled and damp again, and by the time it had been borne back to the 
bottom of the jar it had been enclosed once more in its egg. 

ʹKeep going!ʹ said Harry sharply, because Ginny showed signs of wanting to stop 
and watch the eggʹs progress back into a bird. 
ʹYou dawdled enough by that old arch!ʹ she said crossly, but followed him past 
the bell jar to the only door behind it. 
This is it,ʹ Harry said again, and his heart was now pumping so hard and fast he 
felt it must interfere with his speech, ʹitʹs through here ‐ʹ 
He glanced around at them all; they had their wands out and looked suddenly 
serious and anxious. He looked back at the door and pushed. It swung open. 
They were there, they had found the place: high as a church and full of nothing 
but towering shelves covered in small, dusty, glass orbs. They glimmered dully 
in the light issuing from more candle‐brackets set at intervals along the shelves. 
Like those in the circular room behind them, their flames were burning blue. The 
room was very cold. 
Harry edged forward and peered down one of the shadowy aisles between two 
rows of shelves. He could not hear anything or see the slightest sign of 
movement. 
ʹYou said it was row ninety‐seven,ʹ whispered Hermione. 
ʹYeah,ʹ breathed Harry, looking up at the end of the closest row. Beneath the 
branch of blue‐glowing candles protruding from it glimmered the silver figure 
fifty‐three. 
ʹWe need to go right, I think,ʹ whispered Hermione, squinting to the next row. 
ʹYes… thatʹs fifty‐four…ʹ 
ʹKeep your wands ready,ʹ Harry said softly. 
They crept forward, glancing behind them as they went on down the long alleys 
of shelves, the further ends of which were in near‐total darkness. Tiny, yellowing 
labels had been stuck beneath each glass orb on the shelves. Some of them had a 
weird, liquid glow; others were as dull and dark within as blown light bulbs. 
They passed row eighty‐four… eighty‐five… Harry was listening hard for the 
slightest sound of movement, but Sirius might be gagged now, or else 

unconscious… or, said an unbidden voice inside his head, he might already be 
dead… 
Iʹd have felt it, he told himself, his heart now hammering against his Adamʹs 
apple, Iʹd already know… 
ʹNinety‐seven!ʹ whispered Hermione. 
They stood grouped around the end of the row, gazing down the alley beside it. 
There was nobody there. 
ʹHeʹs right down at the end,ʹ said Harry, whose mouth had become slightly dry. 
ʹYou canʹt see properly from here.ʹ 
And he led them between the towering rows of glass balls, some of which 
glowed softly as they passed… 
ʹHe should be near here,ʹ whispered Harry, convinced that every step was going 
to bring the ragged form of Sirius into view on the darkened floor. ʹAnywhere 
here… really close…ʹ 
ʹHarry?ʹ said Hermione tentatively, but he did not want to respond. His mouth 
was very dry. 
ʹSomewhere about… here…ʹ he said. 
They had reached the end of the row and emerged into more dim candlelight. 
There was nobody there. All was echoing, dusty silence. 
ʹHe might be…ʹ Harry whispered hoarsely, peering down the next alley. ʹOr 
maybe…ʹ He hurried to look down the one beyond that. 
ʹHarry?ʹ said Hermione again. 
ʹWhat?ʹ he snarled. 
ʹI… I donʹt think Sirius is here.ʹ 
Nobody spoke. Harry did not want to look at any of them. He felt sick. He did 
not understand why Sirius was not here. He had to be here. This was where he, 
Harry, had seen him… 

He ran up the space at the end of the rows, staring down them. Empty aisle after 
empty aisle flickered past. He ran the other way, back past his staring 
companions. There was no sign of Sirius anywhere, nor any hint of a struggle. 
ʹHarry?ʹ Ron called. 
ʹWhat?ʹ 
He did not want to hear what Ron had to say; did not want to hear Ron tell him 
he had been stupid or suggest that they ought to go back to Hogwarts, but the 
heat was rising in his face and he felt as though he would like to skulk down 
here in the darkness for a long while before facing the brightness of the Atrium 
above and the othersʹ accusing stares… 
ʹHave you seen this?ʹ said Ron, 
ʹWhat?ʹ said Harry, but eagerly this time ‐ it had to be a sign that Sirius had been 
there, a clue. He strode back to where they were all standing, a little way down 
row ninety‐seven, but found nothing except Ron staring at one of the dusty glass 
spheres on the shelf. 
What?ʹ Harry repeated glumly. 
ʹItʹs — itʹs got your name on,ʹ said Ron. 
Harry moved a little closer. Ron was pointing at one of the small glass spheres 
that glowed with a dull inner light, though it was very dusty and appeared not 
to have been touched for many years. 
ʹMy name?ʹ said Harry blankly. 
He stepped forwards. Not as tall as Ron, he had to crane his neck to read the 
yellowish label affixed to the shelf right beneath j^^^ ^^^H 
the dusty glass ball. In spidery writing was written a date of some sixteen years 
previously, and below that: 
S.P.T. to A.P.W.B.D.
Dark Lord and (?)Harry Potter

Harry stared at it. 
ʹWhat is it?ʹ Ron asked, sounding unnerved. ʹWhatʹs your name doing down 
here?ʹ 
He glanced along at the other labels on that stretch of shelf. 
ʹIʹm not here,ʹ he said, sounding perplexed. ʹNone of the rest of us are here.ʹ 
ʹHarry, I donʹt think you should touch it,ʹ said Hermione sharply, as he stretched 
out his hand. 
ʹWhy not?ʹ he said. ʹItʹs something to do with me, isnʹt it?ʹ 
ʹDonʹt, Harry,ʹ said Neville suddenly. Harry looked at him. Nevilleʹs round face 
was shining slightly with sweat. He looked as though he could not take much 
more suspense. 
ʹItʹs got my name on,ʹ said Harry. 
And feeling slightly reckless, he closed his fingers around the dusty ballʹs 
surface. He had expected it to feel cold, but it did not. On the contrary, it felt as 
though it had been lying in the sun for hours, as though the glow of light within 
was warming it. Expecting, even hoping, that something dramatic was going to 
happen, something exciting that might make their long and dangerous journey 
worthwhile after all, Harry lifted the glass ball down from its shelf and stared at 
it. 
Nothing whatsoever happened. The others moved in closer around Harry, 
gazing at the orb as he brushed it free of the clogging dust. 
And then, from right behind them, a drawling voice spoke. 
ʹVery good, Potter. Now turn around, nice and slowly, and give that to me.ʹ 
— CHAPTER THIRTY‐FIVE — 
Beyond the Veil

Black shapes were emerging out of thin air all around them, blocking their way 
left and right; eyes glinted through slits in hoods, a dozen lit wand tips were 
pointing directly at their hearts; Ginny gave a gasp of horror. 
To me, Potter,ʹ repeated the drawling voice of Lucius Malfoy as he held out his 
hand, palm up. 
Harrys insides plummeted sickeningly. They were trapped, and outnumbered 
two to one. 
To me,ʹ said Malfoy yet again. 
ʹWhereʹs Sirius?ʹ Harry said. 
Several of the Death Eaters laughed; a harsh female voice from the midst of the 
shadowy figures to Harryʹs left said triumphantly, The Dark Lord always 
knows!ʹ 
ʹAlways,ʹ echoed Malfoy softly. ʹNow, give me the prophecy Potter.ʹ 
ʹI want to know where Sirius is!ʹ 
ʹI want to know where Sirius is!ʹ mimicked the woman to his left. 
She and her fellow Death Eaters had closed in so that they were mere feet away 
from Harry and the others, the light from their wands dazzling Harryʹs eyes. 
ʹYouʹve got him,ʹ said Harry, ignoring the rising panic in his chest, the dread he 
had been fighting since they had first entered the ninety‐seventh row. ʹHeʹs here. 
I know he is.ʹ 
The little baby woke up jwightened and fort what it dweamed was twoo,ʹ said the 
woman in a horrible, mock baby voice. Harry felt Ron stir beside him. 
ʹDonʹt do anything,ʹ Harry muttered. ʹNot yet ‐ʹ 
The woman who had mimicked him let out a raucous scream of laughter. 
ʹYou hear him? You hear him? Giving instructions to the other children as though 
he thinks of fighting us!ʹ 

ʹOh, you donʹt know Potter as I do, Bellatrix,ʹ said Malfoy softly. ʹHe has a great 
weakness for heroics; the Dark Lord understands this about him. Now give me 
the prophecy, Potter.ʹ 
ʹI know Sirius is here,ʹ said Harry, though panic was causing his chest to constrict 
and he felt as though he could not breathe properly. ʹI know youʹve got him!ʹ 
More of the Death Eaters laughed, though the woman laughed loudest of all. 
ʹItʹs time you learned the difference between life and dreams, Potter,ʹ said 
Malfoy. ʹNow give me the prophecy, or we start using wands.ʹ 
ʹGo on, then,ʹ said Harry, raising his own wand to chest height. As he did so, the 
five wands of Ron, Hermione, Neville, Ginny and Luna rose on either side of 
him. The knot in Harryʹs stomach tightened. If Sirius really was not here, he had 
led his friends to their deaths for no reason at all… 
But the Death Eaters did not strike. 
ʹHand over the prophecy and no one need get hurt,ʹ said Malfoy coolly. 
It was Harryʹs turn to laugh. 
ʹYeah, right!ʹ he said. ʹ1 give you this ‐ prophecy, is it? And youʹll just let us skip 
off home, will you?ʹ 
The words were hardly out of his mouth when the female Death Eater shrieked: 
ʹAccto proph—ʹ 
Harry was just ready for her: he shouted ʹProtego!ʹ before she had finished her 
spell, and though the glass sphere slipped to the tips of his fingers he managed to 
cling on to it. 
ʹOh, he knows how to play, little bitty baby Potter,ʹ she said, her mad eyes staring 
through the slits in her hood. ʹVery well, then ‐ʹ 
ʹI TOLD YOU, NO!ʹ Lucius Malfoy roared at the woman. ʹIf you smash it ‐!ʹ 
Harryʹs mind was racing. The Death Eaters wanted this dusty spun‐glass sphere. 
He had no interest in it. He just wanted to get them all out of this alive, to make 
sure none of his friends paid a terrible price for his stupidity… 

The woman stepped forward, away from her fellows, and pulled off her hood. 
Azkaban had hollowed Bellatrix Lestrangeʹs face, making it gaunt and skull‐like, 
but it was alive with a feverish, fanatical glow. 
ʹYou need more persuasion?ʹ she said, her chest rising and falling rapidly. ʹVery 
well ‐ take the smallest one,ʹ she ordered the Death Eaters beside her. ʹLet him 
watch while we torture the little girl. Iʹll do it.ʹ 
Harry felt the others close in around Ginny; he stepped sideways so that he was 
right in front of her, the prophecy held up to his chest. 
ʹYouʹll have to smash this if you want to attack any of us,ʹ he told Bellatrix. ʹI 
donʹt think your boss will be too pleased if you come back without it, will he?ʹ 
She did not move; she merely stared at him, the tip of her tongue moistening her 
thin mouth. 
ʹSo,ʹ said Harry, ʹwhat kind of prophecy are we talking about, anyway?ʹ 
He could not think what to do but to keep talking. Nevilleʹs arm was pressed 
against his, and he could feel him shaking; he could feel one of the othersʹ 
quickened breath on the back of his head. He was hoping they were all thinking 
hard about ways to get out of this, because his mind was blank. 
ʹWhat kind of prophecy?ʹ repeated Bellatrix, the grin fading from her face. ʹYou 
jest, Harry Potter.ʹ 
ʹNope, not jesting,ʹ said Harry, his eyes flicking from Death Eater to Death 
Eater,.looking for a weak link, a space through which they could escape. ʹHow 
come Voldemort wants it?ʹ 
Several of the Death Eaters let out low hisses. 
ʹYou dare speak his name?ʹ whispered Bellatrix. 
ʹYeah,ʹ said Harry, maintaining his tight grip on the glass ball, expecting another 
attempt to bewitch it from him. ʹYeah, Iʹve got no problem with saying Vol—ʹ 
ʹShut your mouth!ʹ Bellatrix shrieked. ʹYou dare speak his name with your 
unworthy lips, you dare besmirch it with your half‐bloodʹs tongue, you dare ‐ʹ 

ʹDid you know heʹs a half‐blood too?ʹ said Harry recklessly. Hermione gave a 
little moan in his ear. ʹVoldemort? Yeah, his mother was a witch but his dad was 
a Muggle ‐ or has he been telling you lot heʹs pure‐blood?ʹ 
ʹSTl/PEF—ʹ 
ʹNO/ʹ 
A jet of red light had shot from the end of Bellatrix Lestrangeʹs wand, but Malfoy 
had deflected it; his spell caused hers to hit the shelf a foot to the left of Harry 
and several of the glass orbs there shattered. 
Two figures, pearly‐white as ghosts, fluid as smoke, unfurled themselves from 
the fragments of broken glass upon the floor and each began to speak; their 
voices vied with each other, so that only fragments of what they were saying 
could be heard over Malfoy and Bellatrixʹs shouts. 
ʹ… at the solstice will come a new …ʹ said the figure of an old, bearded man. 
ʹDO NOT ATTACK! WE NEED THE PROPHECY!ʹ 
ʹHe dared ‐ he dares ‐ʹ shrieked Bellatrix incoherently, ʹhe stands there ‐ filthy 
half‐blood ‐ʹ 
ʹWAIT UNTIL WEʹVE GOT THE PROPHECY!ʹ bawled Malfoy. 
ʹ… and none will come after…ʹ said the figure of a young woman. 
The two figures that had burst from the shattered spheres had melted into thin 
air. Nothing remained of them or their erstwhile homes but fragments of glass 
upon the floor. They had, however, given Harry an idea. The problem was going 
to be conveying it to the others. 
ʹYou havenʹt told me whatʹs so special about this prophecy Iʹm supposed to be 
handing over,ʹ he said, playing for time. He moved his foot slowly sideways, 
feeling around for someone elseʹs. 
ʹDo not play games with us, Potter,ʹ said Malfoy. 

ʹIʹm not playing games,ʹ said Harry, half his mind on the conversation, half on his 
wandering foot. And then he found someoneʹs toes and pressed down upon 
them. A sharp intake of breath behind him told him they were Hermiones. 
ʹWhat?ʹ she whispered. 
ʹDumbledore never told you the reason you bear that scar was hidden in the 
bowels of the Department of Mysteries?ʹ Malfoy sneered. 
ʹI ‐ what?ʹ said Harry. And for a moment he quite forgot his plan. ʹWhat about 
my scar?ʹ 
ʹWhat?ʹ whispered Hermione more urgently behind him. 
ʹCan this be?ʹ said Malfoy, sounding maliciously delighted; some of the Death 
Eaters were laughing again, and under cover of their laughter, Harry hissed to 
Hermione, moving his lips as little as possible, ʹSmash shelves ‐ʹ 
ʹDumbledore never told you?ʹ Malfoy repeated. ʹWell, this explains why you 
didnʹt come earlier, Potter, the Dark Lord wondered why ‐ʹ 
ʹ‐ when I say now ‐ʹ
ʹ‐ you didnʹt come running when he showed you the place where it was hidden 
in your dreams. He thought natural curiosity would make you want to hear the 
exact wording…ʹ 
ʹDid he?ʹ said Harry. Behind him he felt rather than heard Hermione passing his 
message to the others and he sought to keep talking, to distract the Death Eaters. 
ʹSo he wanted me to come and get it, did he? Why?ʹ 
ʹWhy?ʹ Malfoy sounded incredulously delighted. ʹBecause the only people who 
are permitted to retrieve a prophecy from the Department of Mysteries, Potter, 
are those about whom it was made, as the Dark Lord discovered when he 
attempted to use others to steal it for him.ʹ 
ʹAnd why did he want to steal a prophecy about me?ʹ 
ʹAbout both of you, Potter, about both of you… havenʹt you ever wondered why 
the Dark Lord tried to kill you as a baby?ʹ 

Harry stared into the slitted eye‐holes through which Malfoyʹs grey eyes were 
gleaming. Was this prophecy the reason Harryʹs parents had died, the reason he 
carried his lightning‐bolt scar? Was the answer to all of this clutched in his hand? 
ʹSomeone made a prophecy about Voldemort and me?ʹ he said quietly, gazing at 
Lucius Malfoy, his fingers tightening over the warm glass sphere in his hand. It 
was hardly larger than a Snitch and still gritty with dust. ʹAnd heʹs made me 
come and get it for him? Why couldnʹt he come and get it himself?ʹ 
ʹGet it himself?ʹ shrieked Bellatrix, over a cackle of mad laughter. 
The Dark Lord, walk into the Ministry of Magic, when they are so sweetly 
ignoring his return? The Dark Lord, reveal himself to the Aurors, when at the 
moment they are wasting their time on my dear cousin?ʹ 
ʹSo, heʹs got you doing his dirty work for him, has he?ʹ said Harry. ʹLike he tried 
to get Sturgis to steal it ‐ and Bode?ʹ 
ʹVery good, Potter, very good…ʹ said Malfoy slowly. ʹBut the Dark Lord knows 
you are not unintell—ʹ 
ʹNOW!ʹ yelled Harry. 
Five different voices behind him bellowed, ʹREDUCTO!ʹ Five curses flew in five 
different directions and the shelves opposite them exploded as they hit; the 
towering structure swayed as a hundred glass spheres burst apart, pearly‐white 
figures unfurled into the air and floated there, their voices echoing from who 
knew what long‐dead past amid the torrent of crashing glass and splintered 
wood now raining down upon the floor ‐ 
ʹRUN!ʹ Harry yelled, as the shelves swayed precariously and more glass spheres 
began to fall from above. He seized a handful of Hermioneʹs robes and dragged 
her forwards, holding one arm over his head as chunks of shelf and shards of 
glass thundered down upon them. A Death Eater lunged forwards through the 
cloud of dust and Harry elbowed him hard in the masked face; they were all 
yelling, there were cries of pain, and thunderous crashes as the. shelves collapsed 
upon themselves, weirdly echoing fragments of the Seers unleashed from their 
spheres ‐ 
Harry found the way ahead clear and saw Ron, Ginny and Luna sprint past him, 
their arms over their heads; something . heavy struck him on the side of the face 

but he merely ducked his head and sprinted onwards; a hand caught him by the 
shoulder; he heard Hermione shout, ʹStupefy!ʹ The hand released him at once ‐ 
They were at the end of row ninety‐seven; Harry turned right and began to 
sprint in earnest; he could hear footsteps right behind him and Hermioneʹs voice 
urging Neville on; straight ahead, the door through which they had come was 
ajar; Harry could see the glittering light of the bell jar; he pelted through the 
doorway, the prophecy still clutched tight and safe in his hand, and waited for 
the others to hurtle over the threshold before slamming the door behind them ‐ 
ʹColloportus!ʹ gasped Hermione and the door sealed itself with an odd squelching 
noise. 
ʹWhere ‐ where are the others?ʹ gasped Harry. 
He had thought Ron, Luna and Ginny were ahead of them, that they would be 
waiting in this room, but there was nobody there. 
They must have gone the wrong way!ʹ whispered Hermione, terror in her face. 
ʹListen!ʹ whispered Neville. 
Footsteps and shouts echoed from behind the door they had just sealed; Harry 
put his ear close to the door to listen and heard Lucius Malfoy roar, ʹLeave Nott, 
leave him, I say — his injuries will be nothing to the Dark Lord compared to losing 
that prophecy. Jugson, come back here, we need to organise! Weʹll split into pairs 
and search, and donʹt forget, be gentle with Potter until weʹve got the prophecy, 
you can kill the others if necessary ‐Bellatrix, Rodolphus, you take the left; 
Crabbe, Rabastan, go right ‐Jugson, Dolohov, the door straight ahead ‐ Macnair 
and Avery, through here ‐ Rookwood, over there ‐ Mulciber, come with me!ʹ 
ʹWhat do we do?ʹ Hermione asked Harry, trembling from head to foot. 
ʹWell, we donʹt stand here waiting for them to find us, for a ʹtʹt start,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹLetʹs get away from this door.ʹ | They ran as quietly as they could, past the 
shimmering bell jar j where the tiny egg was hatching and unhatching, towards 
the exit I into the circular hallway at the far end of the room. They were I almost 
there when Harry heard something large and heavy collide with the door 
Hermione had charmed shut. 
ʹStand aside!ʹ said a rough voice. ʹAlahomora!ʹ 

As the door flew open, Harry, Hermione and Neville dived under desks. They 
could see the bottom of the two Death Eatersʹ robes drawing nearer, their feet 
moving rapidly. 
They mightʹve run straight through to the hall,ʹ said the rough voice. 
ʹCheck under the desks,ʹ said another. 
Harry saw the knees of the Death Eaters bend; poking his wand out from under 
the desk, he shouted, ʹSTUPEFY!ʹ 
A jet of red light hit the nearest Death Eater; he fell backwards into a grandfather 
clock and knocked it over; the second Death Eater, however, had leapt aside to 
avoid Harryʹs spell and was pointing his own wand at Hermione, who was 
crawling out from under the desk to get a better aim. 
ʹAvada ‐
Harry launched himself across the floor and grabbed the Death Eater around the 
knees, causing him to topple and his aim to go awry. Neville overturned a desk 
in his anxiety to help; and pointing his wand wildly at the struggling pair, he 
cried: 
ʹEXPELLIARMUS!ʹ
Both Harryʹs and the Death Eaterʹs wands flew out of their hands and soared 
back towards the entrance to the Hall of Prophecy; both scrambled to their feet 
and charged after them, the Death Eater in front, Harry hot on his heels, and 
Neville bringing up the rear, plainly horrorstruck by what he had done. 
ʹGet out of the way, Harry!ʹ yelled Neville, clearly determined to repair the 
damage. 
Harry flung himself sideways as Neville took aim again and shouted: 
ʹSTUPEFY!ʹ
The jet of red light flew right over the Death Eaterʹs shoulder and hit a glass‐
fronted cabinet on the wall full of variously shaped hour‐glasses; the cabinet fell 
to the floor and burst apart, glass flying everywhere, sprang back up on to the 
wall, fully mended, then fell down again, and shattered ‐ 

The Death Eater had snatched up his wand, which lay on the floor beside the 
glittering bell jar. Harry ducked down behind another desk as the man turned; 
his mask had slipped so that he couldnʹt see. He ripped it off with his free hand 
and shouted: ʹSTUP—ʹ 
ʹSTUPEFY!ʹ screamed Hermione, who had just caught up with them. The jet of 
red light hit the Death Eater in the middle of his chest: he froze, his arm still 
raised, his wand fell to the floor with a clatter and he collapsed backwards 
towards the bell jar. Harry expected to hear a dunk, for the man to hit solid glass 
and slide off the jar on to the floor, but instead, his head sank through the surface 
of the bell jar as though it were nothing but a soap bubble and he came to rest, 
sprawled on his back on the table, with his head lying inside the jar full of 
glittering wind. 
ʹAccio wand!ʹ cried Hermione. Harryʹs wand flew from a dark corner into her 
hand and she threw it to him. 
Thanks,ʹ he said. ʹRight, letʹs get out of —ʹ 
ʹLook out!ʹ said Neville, horrified. He was staring at the Death Eaterʹs head in the 
bell jar. 
All three of them raised their wands again, but none of them struck: they were all 
gazing, open‐mouthed, appalled, at what was happening to the manʹs head. 
It was shrinking very fast, growing balder and balder, the black hair and stubble 
retracting into his skull; his cheeks becoming smooth, his skull round and 
covered with a peachlike fuzz… 
A babyʹs head now sat grotesquely on top of the thick, muscled neck of the Death 
Eater as he struggled to get up again; but even as they watched, their mouths 
open, the head began to swell to its previous proportions again; thick black hair 
was sprouting from the pate and chin… 
ʹItʹs Time,ʹ said Hermione in an awestruck voice. Time…ʺ 
The Death Eater shook his ugly head again, trying to clear it, but before he could 
pull himself together it began to shrink back to babyhood once more… 
There was a shout from a room nearby, then a crash and a scream. 

ʹRON?ʹ Harry yelled, turning quickly from the monstrous transformation taking 
place before them. ʹGINNY? LUNA?ʹ 
ʹHarry!ʹ Hermione screamed. 
The Death Eater had pulled his head out of the bell jar. His appearance was 
utterly bizarre, his tiny babyʹs head bawling loudly while his thick arms flailed 
dangerously in all directions, narrowly missing Harry, who had ducked. Harry 
raised his wand but to his amazement Hermione seized his arm. 
ʹYou canʹt hurt a baby!ʹ 
There was no time to argue the point; Harry could hear more 
I 
footsteps growing louder from the Hall of Prophecy and knew, too late, that he 
ought not to have shouted and given away their position. 
ʹCome on!ʹ he said, and leaving the ugly baby‐headed Death Eater staggering 
behind them they took off for the door that stood open at the other end of the 
room, leading back into the black hallway. 
They had run halfway towards it when Harry saw through the open door two 
more Death Eaters running across the black room towards them; veering left, he 
burst instead into a small, dark, cluttered office and slammed the door behind 
them. 
ʹCollo—ʹ began Hermione, but before she could complete the spell the door had 
burst open and the two Death Eaters had come hurtling inside. 
With a cry of triumph, both yelled: 
ʹIMPEDIMENTA!ʹ 
Harry, Hermione and Neville were all knocked backwards off their feet; Neville 
was thrown over the desk and disappeared from view; Hermione smashed into a 
bookcase and was promptly deluged in a cascade of heavy books; the back of 
Harryʹs head slammed into the stone wall behind him, tiny lights burst in front 
of his eyes and for a moment he was too dizzy and bewildered to react. 

ʹWEʹVE GOT HIM!ʹ yelled the Death Eater nearest Harry. ʹIN AN OFFICE OFF—ʹ 
ʹSilencio!ʹ cried Hermione and the manʹs voice was extinguished. He continued to 
mouth through the hole in his mask, but no sound came out. He was thrust aside 
by his fellow Death Eater. 
ʹPetrificus Totalus!ʹ shouted Harry, as the second Death Eater raised his wand. His 
arms and legs snapped together and he fell forwards, face down on to the rug at 
Harryʹs feet, stiff as a board and unable to move. 
ʹWell done, Ha—ʹ 
But the Death Eater Hermione had just struck dumb made a sudden slashing 
movement with his wand; a streak of what looked like purple flame passed right 
across Hermioneʹs chest. She gave a tiny ʹOh!ʹ as though of surprise and 
crumpled on to the floor, where she lay motionless. 
ʹHERMIONE!ʹ 
Harry fell to his knees beside her as Neville crawled rapidly towards her from 
under the desk, his wand held up in front of him. The Death Eater kicked out 
hard at Nevilleʹs head as he emerged ‐ his foot broke Nevilleʹs wand in two and 
connected with his face. Neville gave a howl of pain and recoiled, clutching his 
mouth and nose. Harry twisted around, his own wand held high, and saw that 
the Death Eater had ripped off his mask and was pointing his wand directly at 
Harry, who recognised the long, pale, twisted face from the Daily Prophet: 
Antonin Dolohov, the wizard who had murdered the Prewetts. 
Dolohov grinned. With his free hand, he pointed from the prophecy still clutched 
in Harrys hand, to himself, then at Hermione. Though he could no longer speak, 
his meaning could not have been clearer. Give me the prophecy, or you get the 
same as her… 
ʹLike you wonʹt kill us all anyway, the moment I hand it over!ʹ said Harry. 
A whine of panic inside his head was preventing him thinking properly: he had 
one hand on Hermioneʹs shoulder, which was still warm, yet did not dare look at 
her properly. Donʹt let her be dead, donʹt let her be dead, itʹs my fault if sheʹs dead… 

ʹWhaddever you do, Harry,ʹ said Neville fiercely from under the desk, lowering 
his hands to show a clearly broken nose and blood pouring down his mouth and 
chin, ʹdonʹd gib it to him!ʹ 
Then there was a crash outside the door and Dolohov looked over his shoulder ‐ 
the baby‐headed Death Eater had appeared in the doorway, his head bawling, 
his great fists still flailing uncontrollably at everything around him. Harry seized 
his chance: 
ʹPETRIF1CUS TOTALUS!ʹ
The spell hit Dolohov before he could block it and he toppled forwards across his 
comrade, both of them rigid as boards and unable to move an inch. 
ʹHermione,ʹ Harry said at once, shaking her as the baby‐headed Death Eater 
blundered out of sight again. ʹHermione, wake up…ʺ 
ʹWhaddid he do to her?ʹ said Neville, crawling out from under the desk to kneel 
at her other side, blood streaming from his rapidly swelling nose. 
ʹI dunno…ʺ 
Neville groped for Hermioneʹs wrist. 
ʹDatʹs a pulse, Harry, Iʹb sure id is.ʹ 
Such a powerful wave of relief swept through Harry that for a moment he felt 
light‐headed. 
ʹSheʹs alive?ʹ 
ʹYeah, I dink so.ʹ 
There was a pause in which Harry listened hard for the sound of more footsteps, 
but all he could hear were the whimpers and blunderings of the baby‐headed 
Death Eater in the next room. 
ʹNeville, weʹre not far from the exit,ʹ Harry whispered, ʹweʹre right next to that 
circular room… if we can just get you across it and find the right door before any 
more Death Eaters come, Iʹll bet you can get Hermione up the corridor and into 
the lift… then you could find someone… raise the alarm…ʹ 

ʹAnd whad are you going do do?ʹ said Neville, mopping his bleeding nose with 
his sleeve and frowning at Harry. 
ʹIʹve got to find the others,ʹ said Harry. 
ʹWell, Iʹb going do find dem wid you,ʹ said Neville firmly. 
ʹBut Hermione —ʹ 
ʹWeʹll dake her wid us,ʹ said Neville firmly. ʹIʹll carry her — youʹre bedder at 
fighding dem dan I ab ‐ʹ 
He stood up and seized one of Hermioneʹs arms, glaring at Harry, who hesitated, 
then grabbed the other and helped hoist Hermioneʹs limp form over Nevilleʹs 
shoulders. 
ʹWait,ʹ said Harry, snatching up Hermioneʹs wand from the floor and shoving it 
into Nevilleʹs hand, ʹyouʹd better take this.ʹ 
Neville kicked aside the broken fragments of his own wand as they walked 
slowly towards the door. 
ʹMy granʹs going do kill be,ʹ said Neville thickly, blood spattering from his nose 
as he spoke, ʹdat was by dadʹs old wand.ʹ 
Harry stuck his head out of the door and looked around cautiously. The baby‐
headed Death Eater was screaming and banging into things, toppling 
grandfather clocks and overturning desks, bawling and confused, while the 
glass‐fronted cabinet that Harry now suspected had contained Time‐Turners 
continued to fall, shatter and repair itself on the wall behind them. 
ʹHeʹs never going to notice us,ʹ he whispered. ʹCʹmon… keep close behind me…ʺ 
They crept out of the office and back towards the door into the black hallway, 
which now seemed completely deserted. They walked a few steps forwards, 
Neville tottering slightly due to Hermioneʹs weight; the door of the Time Room 
swung shut behind them and the walls began to rotate once more. The recent 
blow on the back of Harrys head seemed to have unsteadied him; he narrowed 
his eyes, swaying slightly, until the walls stopped moving again. With a sinking 
heart, Harry saw that Hermioneʹs fiery crosses had faded from the doors. 

ʹSo which way dʹyou reck—?ʹ 
But before they could make a decision as to which way to try, a door to their 
right sprang open and three people fell out of it. 
ʹRon!ʹ croaked Harry, dashing towards them. ʹGinny ‐ are you all ‐?ʹ 
ʹHarry,ʹ said Ron, giggling weakly, lurching forwards, seizing the front of 
Harryʹs robes and gazing at him with unfocused eyes, ʹthere you are… ha ha 
ha… you look funny, Harry… youʹre all messed up…ʹ 
Ronʹs face was very white and something dark was trickling from the corner of 
his mouth. Next moment his knees had given way, but he still clutched the front 
of Harryʹs robes, so that Harry was pulled into a kind of bow. 
ʹGinny?ʹ Harry said fearfully. ʹWhat happened?ʹ 
But Ginny shook her head and slid down the wall into a sitting position, panting 
and holding her ankle. 
ʹI think her ankleʹs broken, I heard something crack,ʹ whispered Luna, who was 
bending over her and who alone seemed to be unhurt. ʹFour of them chased us 
into a dark room full of planets; it was a very odd place, some of the time we 
were just floating in the dark ‐ʹ 
ʹHarry, we saw Uranus up close!ʹ said Ron, still giggling feebly. ʹGet it, Harry? 
We saw Uranus ‐ ha ha ha ‐ʹ 
A bubble of blood grew at the corner of Ronʹs mouth and burst. 
ʹ‐ anyway, one of them grabbed Ginnyʹs foot, I used the Reductor Curse and 
blew up Pluto in his face, but…ʹ 
Luna gestured hopelessly at Ginny, who was breathing in a very shallow way, 
her eyes still closed. 
ʹAnd what about Ron?ʹ said Harry fearfully, as Ron continued to giggle, still 
hanging off the front of Harryʹs robes. 
ʹI donʹt know what they hit him with,ʹ said Luna sadly, ʹbut heʹs gone a bit funny, 
I could hardly get him along at all.ʹ 

ʹHarry,ʹ said Ron, pulling Harryʹs ear down to his mouth and still giggling 
weakly, ʹyou know who this girl is, Harry? Sheʹs Loony… Loony Lovegood… ha 
ha ha 
ʹWeʹve got to get out of here,ʹ said Harry firmly. ʹLuna, can you help Ginny?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Luna, sticking her wand behind her ear for safekeeping, then putting 
an arm around Ginnys waist and pulling her up. 
ʹItʹs only my ankle, I can do it myself!ʹ said Ginny impatiently, but next moment 
she had collapsed sideways and grabbed Luna for support. Harry pulled Ronʹs 
arm over his shoulder just as, so many months ago, he had pulled Dudleyʹs. He 
looked around: they had a one in twelve chance of getting the exit right first time 
‐ 
He heaved Ron towards a door; they were within a few feet of it when another 
door across the hall burst open and three Death Eaters sped in, led by Bellatrix 
Lestrange. 
ʹThere they are!ʹ she shrieked. 
Stunning Spells shot across the room: Harry smashed his way through the door 
ahead, flung Ron unceremoniously from him and ducked back to help Neville in 
with Hermione: they were all over the threshold just in time to slam the door 
against Bellatrix. 
ʹColloportus!ʹ shouted Harry, and he heard three bodies slam into the door on the 
other side. 
ʹIt doesnʹt matter!ʹ said a manʹs voice. There are other ways in ‐ WEʹVE GOT 
THEM, THEYʹRE HERE!ʹ 
Harry span around; they were back in the Brain Room and, sure enough, there 
were doors all around the walls. He could hear footsteps in the hall behind them 
as more Death Eaters came running to join the first. 
ʹLuna ‐ Neville ‐ help me!ʹ 
The three of them tore around the room, sealing the doors as they went; Harry 
crashed into a table and rolled over the top of it in his haste to reach the next 
door: 

ʹColloportus!ʹ
There were footsteps running along behind the doors, every now and then 
another heavy body would launch itself against one, so it creaked and 
shuddered; Luna and Neville were bewitching the doors along the opposite wall 
‐ then, as Harry reached the very top of the room, he heard Luna cry: 
ʹCollo— aaaaaaaaargh…ʹ 
He turned in time to see her flying through the air; five Death Eaters were 
surging into the room through the door she had not reached in time; Luna hit a 
desk, slid over its surface and on to the floor on the other side where she lay 
sprawled, as still as Hermione. 
ʹGet Potter!ʹ shrieked Bellatrix, and she ran at him; he dodged her and sprinted 
back up the room; he was safe as long as they thought they might hit the 
prophecy ‐ 
ʹHey!ʹ said Ron, who had staggered to his feet and was now tottering drunkenly 
towards Harry, giggling. ʹHey Harry, there are brains in here, ha ha ha, isnʹt that 
weird, Harry?ʹ 
ʹRon, get out of the way, get down ‐ʹ 
But Ron had already pointed his wand at the tank. 
ʹHonest, Harry, theyʹre brains ‐ look ‐ Accio brain!ʹ 
The scene seemed momentarily frozen. Harry, Ginny and Neville and each of the 
Death Eaters turned in spite of themselves to watch the top of the tank as a brain 
burst from the green liquid like a leaping fish: for a moment it seemed 
suspended in midair, then it soared towards Ron, spinning as it came, and what 
looked like ribbons of moving images flew from it, unravelling like rolls of film‐ 
ʹHa ha ha, Harry, look at it ‐ʹ said Ron, watching it disgorge its gaudy innards, 
ʹHarry come and touch it; bet itʹs weird ‐ʹ 
ʹRON, NO!ʹ 

Harry did not know what would happen if Ron touched the tentacles of thought 
now flying behind the brain, but he was sure it would not be anything good. He 
darted forwards but Ron had already caught the brain in his outstretched hands. 
The moment they made contact with his skin, the tentacles began wrapping 
themselves around Ronʹs arms like ropes. 
ʹHarry, look whatʹs happen— No ‐ no ‐ I donʹt like it ‐ no, stop ‐ stop ‐ʹ 
But the thin ribbons were spinning around Ronʹs chest now; he tugged and tore 
at them as the brain was pulled tight against him like an octopusʹs body. 
ʹDiffindo!ʹ yelled Harry, trying to sever the feelers wrapping themselves tightly 
around Ron before his eyes, but they would not break. Ron fell over, still 
thrashing against his bonds. 
ʹHarry, itʹll suffocate him!ʹ screamed Ginny, immobilised by her broken ankle on 
the floor ‐ then a jet of red light flew from one of the Death Eaterʹs wands and hit 
her squarely in the face. She keeled over sideways and lay there unconscious. 
ʹSTUBEFY!ʹ shouted Neville, wheeling around and waving Hermioneʹs wand at 
the oncoming Death Eaters, ʹSTUBEFY, STUBEFY!ʹ 
But nothing happened. 
One of the Death Eaters shot their own Stunning Spell at Neville; it missed him 
by inches. Harry and Neville were now the only two left fighting the five Death 
Eaters, two of whom sent off streams of silver light like arrows which missed but 
left craters in the wall behind them. Harry ran for it as Bellatrix Lestrange raced 
right at him: holding the prophecy high above his head, he sprinted back up the 
room; all he could think of doing was to draw the Death Eaters away from the 
others. 
It seemed to have worked; they streaked after him, knocking chairs and tables 
flying but not daring to bewitch him in case they hurt the prophecy, and he 
dashed through the only door still open, the one through which the Death Eaters 
themselves had come; inwardly praying that Neville would stay with Ron and 
find some way of releasing him. He ran a few feet into the new room and felt the 
floor vanish ‐ 

He was falling down steep stone step after steep stone step, bouncing on every 
tier until at last, with a crash that knocked all the breath out of his body, he 
landed flat on his back in the sunken pit where the stone archway stood on its 
dais. The whole room was ringing with the Death Eatersʹ laughter: he looked up 
and saw the five who had been in the Brain Room descending towards him, 
while as many more emerged through other doorways and began leaping from 
bench to bench towards him. Harry got to his feet though his legs were trembling 
so badly they barely supported him: the prophecy was still miraculously 
unbroken in his left hand, his wand clutched tightly in his right. He backed 
away, looking around, trying to keep all the Death Eaters within his sight. The 
back of his legs hit something solid: he had reached the dais where the archway 
stood. He climbed backwards onto it. 
The Death Eaters all halted, gazing at him. Some were panting as hard as he was. 
One was bleeding badly; Dolohov, freed of the Body‐Bind Curse, was leering, his 
wand pointing straight at Harrys face. 
ʹPotter, your race is run,ʹ drawled Lucius Malfoy, pulling off his mask, ʹnow hand 
me the prophecy like a good boy.ʹ 
ʹLet ‐ let the others go, and Iʹll give it to you!ʹ said Harry desperately. 
A few of the Death Eaters laughed. 
ʹYou are not in a position to bargain, Potter,ʹ said Lucius Malfoy, his pale face 
flushed with pleasure. ʹYou see, there are ten of us and only one of you… or 
hasnʹt Dumbledore ever taught you how to count?ʹ 
ʹHeʹs dot alone!ʹ shouted a voice from above them. ʹHeʹs still god be!ʹ 
Harryʹs heart sank: Neville was scrambling down the stone benches towards 
them, Hermiones wand held fast in his trembling hand. 
ʹNeville ‐ no ‐ go back to Ron ‐ʹ 
ʹSTUBEFY!ʹ Neville shouted again, pointing his wand at each Death Eater in turn. 
ʹSTUBEFY! STl/BE—ʹ 
One of the largest Death Eaters seized Neville from behind, pinioning his arms to 
his sides. He struggled and kicked; several of the Death Eaters laughed. 

ʹItʹs Longbottom, isnʹt it?ʹ sneered Lucius Malfoy. ʹWell, your grandmother is 
used to losing family members to our cause… your death will not come as a 
great shock.ʹ 
ʹLongbottom?ʹ repeated Bellatrix, and a truly evil smile lit her gaunt face. ʹWhy, I 
have had the pleasure of meeting your parents, boy,ʹ 
ʹI DOE YOU HAB!ʹ roared Neville, and he fought so hard against his captors 
encircling grip that the Death Eater shouted, ʹSomeone Stun him!ʹ 
ʹNo, no, no,ʹ said Bellatrix. She looked transported, alive with excitement as she 
glanced at Harry, then back at Neville. ʹNo, letʹs see how long Longbottom lasts 
before he cracks like his parents… unless Potter wants to give us the prophecy.ʹ 
ʹDONʹD GIB ID DO DEM!ʹ roared Neville, who seemed beside himself, kicking 
and writhing as Bellatrix drew nearer to him and his captor, her wand raised. 
ʹDONʹD GIB ID DO DEM, HARRY!ʹ 
Bellatrix raised her wand. ʹCrude/ʹ 
Neville screamed, his legs drawn up to his chest so that the Death Eater holding 
him was momentarily holding him off the ground. The Death Eater dropped him 
and he fell to the floor, twitching and screaming in agony. 
ʹThat was just a taster!ʹ said Bellatrix, raising her wand so that Nevilleʹs screams 
stopped and he lay sobbing at her feet. She turned and gazed up at Harry. ʹNow, 
Potter, either give us the prophecy, or watch your little friend die the hard way!ʹ 
Harry did not have to think; there was no choice. The prophecy was hot with the 
heat of his clutching hand as he held it out. Malfoy jumped forwards to take it. 
Then, high above them, two more doors burst open and five more people 
sprinted into the room: Sirius, Lupin, Moody, Tonks and Kingsley. 
Malfoy turned, and raised his wand, but Tonks had already sent a Stunning Spell 
right at him. Harry did not wait to see whether it had made contact, but dived off 
the dais out of the way. The Death Eaters were completely distracted by the 
appearance of the members of the Order, who were now raining spells down 
upon them as they jumped from step to step towards the sunken floor. Through 
the darting bodies, the flashes of light, Harry could see Neville crawling along. 

He dodged another jet of red light and flung himself flat on the ground to reach 
Neville. 
ʹAre you OK?ʹ he yelled, as another spell soared inches over their heads. 
ʹYes,ʹ said Neville, trying to pull himself up. 
ʹAnd Ron?ʹ 
ʹI dink heʹs all righd ‐ he was still fighding de brain when I lefd ‐ʹ 
The stone floor between them exploded as a spell hit it, leaving a crater right 
where Nevilles hand had been only seconds before; both scrambled away from 
the spot, then a thick arm came out of nowhere, seized Harry around the neck 
and pulled him upright, so that his toes were barely touching the floor. 
ʹGive it to me,ʹ growled a voice in his ear, ʹgive me the prophecy ‐ʹ 
The man was pressing so tightly on Harryʹs windpipe that he could not breathe. 
Through watering eyes he saw Sirius duelling with a Death Eater some ten feet 
away; Kingsley was fighting two at once; Tonks, still halfway up the tiered seats, 
was firing spells down at Bellatrix ‐ nobody seemed to realise that Harry was 
dying. He turned his wand backwards towards the manʹs side, but had no breath 
to utter an incantation, and the manʹs free hand was groping towards the hand in 
which Harry was grasping the prophecy ‐ 
ʹAARGH!ʹ 
Neville had come lunging out of nowhere; unable to articulate a spell, he had 
jabbed Hermioneʹs wand hard into the eyehole of the Death Eaters mask. The 
man relinquished Harry at once with a howl of pain. Harry whirled around to 
face him and gasped: 
ʹSTUPEFY!ʹ
The Death Eater keeled over backwards and his mask slipped off: it was Macnair, 
Buckbeakʹs would‐be killer, one of his eyes now swollen and bloodshot. 
Thanks!ʹ Harry said to Neville, pulling him aside as Sirius and his Death Eater 
lurched past, duelling so fiercely that their wands were blurs; then Harryʹs foot 
made contact with something round and hard and he slipped. For a moment he 

thought he had dropped the prophecy, but then he saw Moodyʹs magical eye 
spinning away across the floor. 
Its owner was lying on his side, bleeding from the head, and his attacker was 
now bearing down upon Harry and Neville: Dolohov, his long pale face twisted 
with glee. 
ʹTarantallegra!ʹ he shouted, his wand pointing at Neville, whose legs went 
immediately into a kind of frenzied tap‐dance, unbalancing him and causing him 
to fall to the floor again. ʹNow, Potter ‐ʹ 
He made the same slashing movement with his wand that he had used on 
Hermione just as Harry yelled, ʹProtege/ʹ 
Harry felt something streak across his face like a blunt knife; the force of it 
knocked him sideways and he fell over Nevilleʹs jerking legs, but the Shield 
Charm had stopped the worst of the spell. 
Dolohov raised his wand again. ʹAccio proph—ʹ 
Sirius had hurtled out of nowhere, rammed Dolohov with his shoulder and sent 
him flying out of the way. The prophecy had again flown to the tips of Harryʹs 
fingers but he had managed to cling on to it. Now Sirius and Dolohov were 
duelling, their wands flashing like swords, sparks flying from their wand‐tips ‐ 
Dolohov drew back his wand to make the same slashing movement he had used 
on Harry and Hermione. Springing up, Harry yelled, ʹPetrificus Totalus!ʹ Once 
again, Dolohovʹs arms and legs snapped together and he keeled over backwards, 
landing with a crash on his back. 
ʹNice one!ʹ shouted Sirius, forcing Harryʹs head down as a pair of Stunning Spells 
flew towards them. ʹNow I want you to get out of‐ʹ 
They both ducked again; a jet of green light had narrowly missed Sirius. Across 
the room Harry saw Tonks fall from halfway up the stone steps, her limp form 
toppling from stone seat to stone seat and Bellatrix, triumphant, running back 
towards the fray. 
ʹHarry, take the prophecy, grab Neville and run!ʹ Sirius yelled, dashing to meet 
Bellatrix. Harry did not see what happened next: Kingsley swayed across his 
field of vision, battling with the pockmarked and no longer masked Rookwood; 

another jet of green light flew over Harryʹs head as he launched himself towards 
Neville ‐ 
ʹCan you stand?ʹ he bellowed in Nevilleʹs ear, as Nevilleʹs legs jerked and 
twitched uncontrollably. ʹPut your arm round my neck ‐ʹ 
Neville did so ‐ Harry heaved — Nevilleʹs legs were still flying in every 
direction, they would not support him, and then, out of nowhere, a man lunged 
at them: both fell backwards, Nevilleʹs legs waving wildly like an overturned 
beetleʹs, Harry with his left arm held up in the air to try to save the small glass 
ball from being smashed. 
The prophecy, give me the prophecy, Potter!ʹ snarled Lucius Malfoyʹs voice in his 
ear, and Harry felt the tip of Malfoyʹs wand pressing hard between his ribs. 
ʹNo ‐ get ‐ off ‐ me… Neville ‐ catch it!ʹ 
Harry flung the prophecy across the floor, Neville span himself around on his 
back and scooped the ball to his chest. Malfoy pointed the wand instead at 
Neville, but Harry jabbed his own wand back over his shoulder and yelled, 
ʹImpedimenta!ʹ 
Malfoy was blasted off his back. As Harry scrambled up again he looked around 
and saw Malfoy smash into the dais on which Sirius and Bellatrix were now 
duelling. Malfoy aimed his wand at Harry and Neville again, but before he could 
draw breath to strike, Lupin had jumped between them. 
ʹHarry, round up the others and GO!ʹ 
Harry seized Neville by the shoulder of his robes and lifted him bodily on to the 
first tier of stone steps; Nevilleʹs legs twitched and jerked and would not support 
his weight; Harry heaved again with all the strength he possessed and they 
climbed another step ‐ 
A spell hit the stone bench at Harrys heel; it crumbled away and he fell back to 
the step below. Neville sank to the ground, his legs still jerking and thrashing, 
and he thrust the prophecy into his pocket. 
ʹCome on!ʹ said Harry desperately, hauling at Nevilles robes. ʹJust try and push 
with your legs ‐ʹ 

He gave another stupendous heave and Nevilles robes tore all along the left 
seam ‐ the small spun‐glass ball dropped from his pocket and, before either of 
them could catch it, one of Nevilleʹs floundering feet kicked it: it flew some ten 
feet to their right and smashed on the step beneath them. As both of them stared 
at the place where it had broken, appalled at what had happened, a pearly‐white 
figure with hugely magnified eyes rose into the air, unnoticed by any but 
them..Harry could see its mouth moving, but in all the crashes and screams and 
yells surrounding them, not one word of the prophecy could he hear. The figure 
stopped speaking and dissolved into nothingness. 
ʹHarry, Fb sorry!ʹ cried Neville, his face anguished as his legs continued to 
flounder. Tb so sorry, Harry, I didnʹd bean do ‐ʹ 
ʹIt doesnʹt matter!ʹ Harry shouted. ʹJust try and stand, letʹs get out of ‐ʹ 
ʹDubbledore!ʹ said Neville, his sweaty face suddenly transported, staring over 
Harryʹs shoulder. 
ʹWhat?ʹ 
ʹDUBBLEDORE!ʹ 
Harry turned to look where Neville was staring. Directly above them, framed in 
the doorway from the Brain Room, stood Albus Dumbledore, his wand aloft, his 
face white and furious. Harry felt a kind of electric charge surge through every 
particle of his body ‐ they were saved. 
Dumbledore sped down the steps past Neville and Harry, who had no more 
thoughts of leaving. Dumbledore was already at the foot of the steps when the 
Death Eaters nearest realised he was there and yelled to the others. One of the 
Death Eaters ran for it, scrabbling like a monkey up the stone steps opposite. 
Dumbledoreʹs spell pulled him back as easily and effortlessly as though he had 
hooked him with an invisible line ‐ 
Only one pair was still battling, apparently unaware of the new arrival. Harry 
saw Sirius duck Bellatrixʹs jet of red light: he was laughing at her. 
ʹCome on, you can do better than that!ʹ he yelled, his voice echoing around the 
cavernous room. 
The second jet of light hit him squarely on the chest. 

The laughter had not quite died from his face, but his eyes widened in shock. 
Harry released Neville, though he was unaware of doing so. He was jumping 
down the steps again, pulling out his wand, as Dumbledore, too, turned towards 
the dais. 
It seemed to take Sirius an age to fall: his body curved in a graceful arc as he sank 
backwards through the ragged veil hanging from the arch. 
Harry saw the look of mingled fear and surprise on his godfatherʹs wasted, once‐
handsome face as he fell through the ancient doorway and disappeared behind 
the veil, which fluttered for a moment as though in a high wind, then fell back 
into place. 
Harry heard Bellatrix Lestrangeʹs triumphant scream, but knew it meant nothing 
‐ Sirius had only just fallen through the archway, he would reappear from the 
other side any second… 
But Sirius did not reappear. 
ʹSIRIUS!ʹ Harry yelled. ʹSIRIUS!ʹ 
He had reached the floor, his breath coming in searing gasps. Sirius must be just 
behind the curtain, he, Harry, would pull him back out… 
But as he reached the ground and sprinted towards the dais, Lupin grabbed 
Harry around the chest, holding him back. 
Thereʹs nothing you can do, Harry ‐ʹ 
ʹGet him, save him, heʹs only just gone through!ʹ 
ʹ‐ itʹs too late, Harry.ʹ 
ʹWe can still reach him ‐ʹ Harry struggled hard and viciously, but Lupin would 
not let go… 
Thereʹs nothing you can do, Harry… nothing… heʹs gone.ʹ 
CHAPTER THIRTY‐SIX 
 

The Only One
He Ever Feared
 
ʹHe hasnʹt gone!ʹ Harry yelled. 
 
He did not believe it; he would not believe it; still he fought Lupin with every bit 
of strength he had. Lupin did not understand; people hid behind that curtain; 
Harry had heard them whispering the first time he had entered the room. Sirius 
was hiding, simply lurking out of sight 
ʹSIRIUS!ʹ he bellowed. ʹSIRIUS!ʹ 
`He canʹt come back, Harry,ʹ said Lupin, his voice breaking as he struggled to 
contain Harry. `He canʹt come back, because heʹs d‐ʹ 
`HE ‐ IS ‐ NOT ‐ DEAD!ʹ roared Harry. ʹSIRIUS!ʹ 
There was movement going on around them, pointless bustling, the flashes of 
more spells. To Harry it was meaningless noise, the deflected curses flying past 
them did not matter, nothing mattered except that Lupin should stop pretending 
that Sirius ‐ who was standing feet from them behind that old curtain ‐ was not 
going to emerge at any moment, shaking back his dark hair and eager to re‐enter 
the battle. 
Lupin dragged Harry away from the dais. Harry, still staring at the archway, was 
angry at Sirius now for keeping him waiting 
But some part of him realised, even as he fought to break free from Lupin, that 
Sirius had never kept him waiting before… Sirius had risked everything, always, 
to see Harry, to help him… if Sirius was not reappearing out of that archway 
when Harry was yelling for him as though his life depended on it, the only 
possible explanation was that he could not come back… that he really was 
Dumbledore had most of the remaining Death Eaters grouped in the middle of 
the room, seemingly immobilised by invisible ropes; Mad‐Eye Moody had 
crawled across the room to where Tonks lay, and was attempting to revive her; 

behind the dais there were still hashes of light, grunts and cries ‐ Kingsley had 
run forward to continue Siriusʹs duel with Bellatrix. 
`Harry?ʹ 
Neville had slid down the stone benches one by one to the place where Harry 
stood. Harry was no longer struggling against Lupin, who maintained a 
precautionary grip on his arm nevertheless. 
`Harry… Iʹb really sorry…ʹ said Neville. His legs were still dancing 
uncontrollably. `Was dad man ‐ was Sirius Black a ‐ a friend of yours?ʹ 
Harry nodded. 
`Here,ʹ said Lupin quietly, and pointing his wand at Nevilleʹs legs he said, 
`Finite.ʹ The spell was lifted: Nevilleʹs legs fell back to the floor and remained 
still. Lupinʹs face was pale. `Letʹs ‐ letʹs find the others. Where are they all, 
Neville?ʹ 
Lupin turned away from the archway as he spoke. It sounded as though every 
word was causing him pain. 
`Deyʹre all back dere,ʹ said Neville. `A brain addacked Ron bud I dink heʹs all 
righd ‐ and Herbioneʹs unconscious, bud we could feel a bulse = 
There was a loud bang and a yell from behind the dais. Harry saw Kingsley hit 
the ground yelling in pain: Bellatrix Lestrange turned tail and ran as Dumbledore 
whipped around. He aimed a spell at her but she deflected it; she was halfway 
up the steps now 
`Harry ‐ no!ʹ cried Lupin, but Harry had already ripped his arm from Lupinʹs 
slackened grip. 
`SHE KILLED SIRIUS!ʹ bellowed Harry. `SHE KILLED HIM IʹLL KILL HER!ʹ 
And he was off, scrambling up the stone benches; people were shouting behind 
him but he did not care. The hem of Bellatrixʹs robes whipped out of sight ahead 
and they were back in the room where the brains were swimming… 
She aimed a curse over her shoulder. The tank rose into the air 

and tipped. Harry was deluged in the foul‐smelling potion within: the brains 
slipped and slid over him and began spinning their long coloured tentacles, but 
he shouted, `Wingardium Leviosa!ʹ and they flew off him up into the air. 
Slipping and sliding, he ran on towards the door; he leapt over Luna, who was 
groaning on the floor, past Ginny, who said, `Harry ‐ what ‐?ʹ, past Ron, who 
giggled feebly, and Hermione, who was still unconscious. He wrenched open the 
door into the circular black hall and saw Bellatrix disappearing through a door 
on the other side of the room; beyond her was the corridor leading back to the 
lifts. 
He ran, but she had slammed the door behind her and the walls were already 
rotating. Once more, he was surrounded by streaks of blue light from the 
whirling candelabra. 
`Whereʹs the exit?ʹ he shouted desperately, as the wall rumbled to a halt again. 
`Whereʹs the way out?ʹ 
The room seemed to have been waiting for him to ask. The door right behind 
him flew open and the corridor towards the lifts stretched ahead of him, torch‐lit 
and empty. He ran … 
He could hear a lift clattering ahead; he sprinted up the passageway, swung 
around the corner and slammed his fist on to the button to call a second lift. It 
jangled and banged lower and lower; the grilles slid open and Harry dashed 
inside, now hammering the button marked `Atriumʹ. The doors slid shut and he 
was rising … 
He forced his way out of the lift before the grilles were fully open and looked 
around. Bellatrix was almost at the telephone lift at the other end of the hall, but 
she looked back as he sprinted towards her and aimed another spell at him. He 
dodged behind the Fountain of Magical Brethren: the spell zoomed past him and 
hit the wroughtgold gates at the other end of the Atrium so that they rang like 
bells. There were no more footsteps. She had stopped running. He crouched 
behind the statues, listening. 
`Come out, come out, little Harry!ʹ she called in her mock baby voice, which 
echoed off the polished wooden floors. `What did you come after me for, then? I 
thought you were here to avenge my dear cousin!ʹ 

`I am!ʹ shouted Harry, and a score of ghostly Harrys seemed to chorus I am! I am! 
I am! all around the room 
`Aaaaaah … did you love him, little baby Potter?ʹ 
Hatred rose in Harry such as he had never known before; he flung himself out 
from behind the fountain and bellowed, `Crucio!ʹ 
Bellatrix screamed: the spell had knocked her off her feet, but she did not writhe 
and shriek with pain as Neville had ‐ she was already back on her feet, 
breathless, no longer laughing. Harry dodged behind the golden fountain again. 
Her counter‐spell hit the head of the handsome wizard, which was blown off and 
landed twenty feet away, gouging long scratches into the wooden floor. 
`Never used an Unforgivable Curse before, have you, boy?ʹ she yelled. She had 
abandoned her baby voice now. `You need to mean them, Potter! You need to 
really want to cause pain ‐ to enjoy it ‐ righteous anger wonʹt hurt me for long ‐ 
Iʹll show you how it is done, shall I? Iʹll give you a lesson ‐ʹ 
Harry was edging around the fountain on the other side when she screamed, 
`Crucio!ʹ and he was forced to duck down again as the centaurʹs arm, holding its 
bow, span off and landed with a crash on the floor a short distance from the 
golden wizardʹs head. 
`Potter, you cannot win against me!ʹ she cried. 
He could hear her moving to the right, trying to get a clear shot of him. He 
backed around the statue away from her, crouching behind the centaurʹs legs, his 
head level with the house‐elfʹs. 
`I was and am the Dark Lordʹs most loyal servant. I learned the Dark Arts from 
him, and I know spells of such power that you, pathetic little boy, can never hope 
to compete = 
`Stupefy!ʹ yelled Harry. He had edged right around to where the goblin stood 
beaming up at the now headless wizard and taken aim at her back as she peered 
around the fountain. She reacted so fast he barely had time to duck. 
`Protego!ʹ 

The jet of red light, his own Stunning Spell, bounced back at him. Harry 
scrambled back behind the fountain and one of the goblinʹs ears went flying 
across the room. 
`Potter, Iʹm going to give you one chance!ʹ shouted Bellatrix. `Give me the 
prophecy ‐ roll it out towards me now ‐ and I may spare your life!ʹ 
`Well, youʹre going to have to kill me, because itʹs gone!ʹ Harry 
roared and, as he shouted it, pain seared across his forehead; his scar was on fire 
again, and he felt a surge of fury that was quite unconnected with his own rage. 
`And he knows!ʹ said Harry, with a mad laugh to match Bellatrixʹs own. `Your 
dear old mate Voldemort knows itʹs gone! Heʹs not going to be happy with you, 
is he?ʹ 
ʹWhat? What do you mean?ʹ she cried, and for the first time there was fear in her 
voice. 
`The prophecy smashed when I was trying to get Neville up the steps! What do 
you think Voldemortʹll say about that, then?ʹ 
His scar seared and burned… the pain of it was making his eyes stream… 
`LIAR!ʹ she shrieked, but he could hear the terror behind the anger now. 
`YOUʹVE GOT IT, POTTER, AND YOU WILL GIVE IT TO ME! Accio prophecy! 
ACCIO PROPHECY!ʹ 
Harry laughed again because he knew it would incense her, the pain building in 
his head so badly he thought his skull might burst. He waved his empty hand 
from behind the one‐eared goblin and withdrew it quickly as she sent another jet 
of green light flying at him. 
`Nothing there!ʹ he shouted. `Nothing to summon! It smashed and nobody heard 
what it said, tell your boss that!ʹ 
`No!ʹ she screamed. `It isnʹt true, youʹre lying! MASTER, I TRIED, I TRIED ‐ DO 
NOT PUNISH ME = 
`Donʹt waste your breath!ʹ yelled Harry, his eyes screwed up against the pain in 
his scar, now more terrible than ever. `He canʹt hear you from here!ʹ 

`Canʹt I, Potter?ʹ said a high, cold voice. 
Harry opened his eyes. 
Tall, thin and black‐hooded, his terrible snakelike face white and gaunt, his 
scarlet, slit‐pupilled eyes staring… Lord Voldemort had appeared in the middle 
of the hall, his wand pointing at Harry who stood frozen, quite unable to move. 
`So, you smashed my prophecy?ʹ said Voldemort softly, staring at Harry with 
those pitiless red eyes. `No, Bella, he is not lying… I see the truth looking at me 
from within his worthless mind… months of preparation, months of effort… and 
my Death Eaters have let Harry Potter thwart me again …I 
ʹMaster, I am sorry I knew not, I was fighting the Animagus Black!ʹ sobbed 
Bellatrix, flinging herself down at Voldemortʹs feet as he paced slowly nearer. 
`Master, you should know = 
`Be quiet, Bella,ʹ said Voldemort dangerously. `I shall deal with you in a moment. 
Do you think I have entered the Ministry of Magic to hear your snivelling 
apologies?T 
ʹBut Master ‐ he is here ‐ he is below = 
Voldemort paid no attention. 
`I have nothing more to say to you, Potter,ʹ he said quietly. `You have irked me 
too often, for too long. AVADA KEDAVRA!ʹ 
Harry had not even opened his mouth to resist; his mind was blank, his wand 
pointing uselessly at the floor. 
But the headless golden statue of the wizard in the fountain had sprung alive, 
leaping from its plinth to land with a crash on the floor between Harry and 
Voldemort. The spell merely glanced off its chest as the statue flung out its arms 
to protect Harry. 
`What ‐?ʹ cried Voldemort, staring around. And then he breathed, `Dumbledore!ʹ 
Harry looked behind him, his heart pounding. Dumbledore was standing in 
front of the golden gates. 

Voldemort raised his wand and another jet of green light streaked at 
Dumbledore, who turned and was gone in a whirling of his cloak. Next second, 
he had reappeared behind Voldemort and waved his wand towards the 
remnants of the fountain. The other statues sprang to life. The statue of the witch 
ran at Bellatrix, who screamed and sent spells streaming uselessly off its chest, 
before it dived at her, pinning her to the floor. Meanwhile, the goblin and the 
house‐elf scuttled towards the fireplaces set along the wall and the one‐armed 
centaur galloped at Voldemort, who vanished and reappeared beside the pool. 
The headless statue thrust Harry backwards, away from the fight, as 
Dumbledore advanced on Voldemort and the golden centaur cantered around 
them both. 
`It was foolish to come here tonight, Tom,ʹ said Dumbledore calmly. `The Aurors 
are on their way = 
`By which time I shall be gone, and you will be dead!ʹ spat Voldemort. He sent 
another killing curse at Dumbledore but 
missed, instead hitting the security guardʹs desk, which burst into flame. 
Dumbledore flicked his own wand: the force of the spell that emanated from it 
was such that Harry, though shielded by his golden guard, felt his hair stand on 
end as it passed and this time Voldemort was forced to conjure a shining silver 
shield out of thin air to deflect it. The spell, whatever it was, caused no visible 
damage to the shield, though a deep, gong‐like note reverberated from it ‐ an 
oddly chilling sound. 
`You do not seek to kill me, Dumbledore?ʹ called Voldemort, his scarlet eyes 
narrowed over the top of the shield. `Above such brutality, are you?ʹ 
ʹWe both know that there are other ways of destroying a man, Tom,ʹ Dumbledore 
said calmly, continuing to walk towards Voldemort as though he had not a fear 
in the world, as though nothing had happened to interrupt his stroll up the hall. 
`Merely taking your life would not satisfy me, I admit = 
`There is nothing worse than death, Dumbledore!ʹ snarled Voldemort. 
`You are quite wrong,ʹ said Dumbledore, still closing in upon Voldemort and 
speaking as lightly as though they were discussing the matter over drinks. Harry 
felt scared to see him walking along, undefended, shieldless; he wanted to cry 
out a warning, but his headless guard kept shunting him backwards towards the 

wall, blocking his every attempt to get out from behind it. `Indeed, your failure 
to understand that there are things much worse than death has always been your 
greatest weakness = 
Another jet of green light flew from behind the silver shield. This time it was the 
one‐armed centaur, galloping in front of Dumbledore, that took the blast and 
shattered into a hundred pieces, but before the fragments had even hit the floor, 
Dumbledore had drawn back his wand and waved it as though brandishing a 
whip. A long thin flame flew from the tip; it wrapped itself around Voldemort, 
shield and all. For a moment, it seemed Dumbledore had won, but then the fiery 
rope became a serpent, which relinquished its hold on Voldemort at once and 
turned, hissing furiously, to face Dumbledore. 
Voldemort vanished; the snake reared from the floor, ready to strike 
There was a burst of flame in midair above Dumbledore just as Voldemort 
reappeared, standing on the plinth in the middle of the pool where so recently 
the five statues had stood. 
`Look out!ʹ Harry yelled. 
But even as he shouted, another jet of green light flew at Dumbledore from 
Voldemortʹs wand and the snake struck 
Fawkes swooped down in front of Dumbledore, opened his beak wide and 
swallowed the jet of green light whole: he burst into flame and fell to the floor, 
small, wrinkled and flightless. At the same moment, Dumbledore brandished his 
wand in one long, fluid movement ‐ the snake, which had been an instant from 
sinking its fangs into him, flew high into the air and vanished in a wisp of dark 
smoke; and the water in the pool rose up and covered Voldemort like a cocoon of 
molten glass. 
For a few seconds Voldemort was visible only as a dark, rippling, faceless figure, 
shimmering and indistinct upon the plinth, clearly struggling to throw off the 
suffocating mass 
Then he was gone and the water fell with a crash back into its pool, slopping 
wildly over the sides, drenching the polished floor. 
`MASTER!ʹ screamed Bellatrix. 

Sure it was over, sure Voldemort had decided to flee, Harry made to run out 
from behind his statue guard, but Dumbledore bellowed: `Stay where you are, 
Harry!ʹ 
For the first time, Dumbledore sounded frightened. Harry could not see why: the 
hall was quite empty but for themselves, the sobbing Bellatrix still trapped under 
the witch statue, and the baby phoenix Fawkes croaking feebly on the floor 
Then Harryʹs scar burst open and he knew he was dead: it was pain beyond 
imagining, pain past endurance 
He was gone from the hall, he was locked in the coils of a creature with red eyes, 
so tightly bound that Harry did not know where his body ended and the 
creatureʹs began: they were fused together, bound by pain, and there was no 
escape 
And when the creature spoke, it used Harryʹs mouth, so that in his agony he felt 
his jaw move 
`Kill me now, Dumbledore…ʹ 
Blinded and dying, every part of him screaming for release, Harry felt the 
creature use him again… 
 
`If death is nothing, Dumbledore, kill the boy…ʹ 
Let the pain stop, thought Harry… let him kill us… end it, Dumbledore… death 
is nothing compared to this… 
And Iʹll see Sirius again… 
And as Harryʹs heart filled with emotion, the creatureʹs coils loosened, the pain 
was gone; Harry was lying face down on the floor, his glasses gone, shivering as 
though he lay upon ice, not wood… 
And there were voices echoing through the hall, more voices than there should 
have been… Harry opened his eyes, saw his glasses lying by the heel of the 
headless statue that had been guarding him, but which now lay flat on its back, 
cracked and immobile. He put them on and raised his head a little to find 
Dumbledoreʹs crooked nose inches from his own. 

`Are you all right, Harry?ʹ 
`Yes,ʹ said Harry, shaking so violently he could not hold his head up properly. 
`Yeah, Iʹm ‐ whereʹs Voldemort, where ‐ who are all these ‐ whatʹs ‐ 
The Atrium was full of people; the floor was reflecting the emerald green flames 
that had burst into life in all the fireplaces along one wall; and streams of witches 
and wizards were emerging from them. As Dumbledore pulled him back to his 
feet, Harry saw the tiny gold statues of the house‐elf and the goblin, leading a 
stunned‐looking Cornelius Fudge forward. 
`He was there!ʹ shouted a scarlet‐robed man with a ponytail, who was pointing 
at a pile of golden rubble on the other side of the hall, where Bellatrix had lain 
trapped only moments before. `I saw him, Mr Fudge, I swear it was You‐Know‐
Who, he grabbed a woman and Disapparated!ʹ 
`I know, Williamson, I know, I saw him too!ʹ gibbered Fudge, who was wearing 
pyjamas under his pinstriped cloak and was gasping as though he had just run 
miles. `Merlinʹs beard ‐ here ‐ here! ‐ in the Ministry of Magic! ‐ great heavens 
above ‐ it doesnʹt seem possible ‐ my word ‐ how can this be ‐?T 
ʹif you proceed downstairs into the Department of Mysteries, Cornelius,ʹ said 
Dumbledore ‐ apparently satisfied that Harry was all right, and walking 
forwards so that the newcomers realised he was there for the first time (a few of 
them raised their wands; others simply looked amazed; the statues of the elf and 
goblin applauded and Fudge jumped so much that his slipper‐clad feet left the 
floor) ‐ `you will find several escaped Death Eaters contained in the Death 
Chamber, bound by an Anti‐Disapparation Jinx and awaiting your decision as to 
what to do with them.ʹ 
ʹDumbledore!ʹ gasped Fudge, beside himself with amazement. `You‐here‐I‐I= 
He looked wildly around at the Aurors he had brought with him and it could not 
have been clearer that he was in half a mind to cry, `Seize him!ʹ 
ʹCornelius, I am ready to fight your men ‐ and win, again!ʹ said Dumbledore in a 
thunderous voice. `But a few minutes ago you saw proof, with your own eyes, 
that I have been telling you the truth for a year. Lord Voldemort has returned, 
you have been chasing the wrong man for twelve months, and it is time ‐you 
listened to sense!ʹ 

`I ‐ donʹt ‐ well = blustered Fudge, looking around as though hoping somebody 
was going to tell him what to do. When nobody did, he said, `Very well ‐ 
Dawlish! Williamson! Go down to the Department of Mysteries and see… 
Dumbledore, you ‐ you will need to tell me exactly ‐ the Fountain of Magical 
Brethren ‐ what happened?ʹ he added in a kind of whimper, staring around at 
the floor, where the remains of the statues of the witch, wizard and centaur now 
lay scattered. 
`We can discuss that after I have sent Harry back to Hogwarts,ʹ said 
Dumbledore. 
 
`Harry ‐ Harry Potter?ʹ 
Fudge wheeled around and stared at Harry, who was still standing against the 
wall beside the fallen statue that had guarded him during Dumbledore and 
Voldemortʹs duel. 
`He ‐ here?ʹ said Fudge, goggling at Harry. `Why ‐ whatʹs all this about?T 
ʹI shall explain everything,ʹ repeated Dumbledore, `when Harry is back at 
school.ʹ 
He walked away from the pool to the place where the golden wizardʹs head lay 
on the floor. He pointed his wand at it and muttered, `Portus.ʹ The head glowed 
blue and trembled noisily against the wooden floor for a few seconds, then 
became still once more. 
`Now see here, Dumbledore!ʹ said Fudge, as Dumbledore picked up the head 
and walked back to Harry carrying it. `You havenʹt got authorisation for that 
Portkey! You canʹt do things like that right in front of the Minister for Magic, you 
‐ you = 
His voice faltered as Dumbledore surveyed him magisterially over his half‐moon 
spectacles. 
`You will give the order to remove Dolores Umbridge from Hogwarts,ʹ said 
Dumbledore. `You will tell your Aurors to stop searching for my Care of Magical 
Creatures teacher so that he can return to work. I will give you …ʹ Dumbledore 
pulled a watch with twelve hands from his pocket and surveyed itʹ… half an 
hour of my time tonight, in which I think we shall be more than able to cover the 

important points of what has happened here. After that, I shall need to return to 
my school. If you need more help from me you are, of course, more than 
welcome to contact me at Hogwarts. Letters addressed to the Headmaster will 
find me.ʹ 
Fudge goggled worse than ever; his mouth was open and his round face grew 
pinker under his rumpled grey hair. 
`I ‐ you = 
Dumbledore turned his back on him. 
`Take this Portkey, Harry.ʹ 
He held out the golden head of the statue and Harry placed his hand on it, past 
caring what he did next or where he went. 
`I shall see you in half an hour,ʹ said Dumbledore quietly `One … two … three …ʹ 
Harry felt the familiar sensation of a hook being jerked behind his navel. The 
polished wooden floor was gone from beneath his feet; the Atrium, Fudge and 
Dumbledore had all disappeared and he was flying forwards in a whirlwind of 
colour and sound … 
‐ CHAPTER THIRTY‐SEVEN ‐ 

The Lost Prophecy
 
Harryʹs feet hit solid ground; his knees buckled a little and the golden wizardʹs 
head fell *ith a resounding dunk to the floor. He looked around and saw that he 
had arrived in Dumbledoreʹs office. 
Everything seemed to have repaired itself during the Headmasterʹs absence. The 
delicate silver instruments stood once more on the spindle‐legged tables, puffing 
and whirring serenely The portraits of the headmasters and headmistresses were 
snoozing in their frames, heads lolling back in armchairs or against the edge of 
the picture. Harry looked through the window. There was a cool line of pale 
green along the horizon: dawn was approaching. 

The silence and the stillness, broken only by the occasional grunt or snuffle of a 
sleeping portrait, was unbearable to him. If his surroundings could have 
reflected the feelings inside him, the pictures would have been screaming in 
pain. He walked around the quiet, beautiful office, breathing quickly, trying not 
to think. But he had to think… there was no escape… 
It was his fault Sirius had died; it was all his fault. If he, Harry, had not been 
stupid enough to fall for Voldemortʹs trick, if he had not been so convinced that 
what he had seen in his dream was real, if he had only opened his mind to the 
possibility that Voldemort was, as Hermione had said, banking on Harryʹs love of 
playing the hero…
It was unbearable, he would not think about it, he could not stand it… there was 
a terrible hollow inside him he did not want to feel or examine, a dark hole 
where Sirius had been, where Sirius had vanished; he did not want to have to be 
alonc with that great, silent space, he could not stand it ‐ 
A picture behind him gave a particularly loud grunting snore, and a cool voice 
said, ʹAli … Harry Potter …ʹ 
Phineas Nigellus gave a long yawn, stretching his arms as he surveyed Harry out 
of shrewd, narrow eyes. 
`And what brings you here in the early hours of the morning?ʹ said Phineas 
eventually `This office is supposed to be barred to all but the rightful 
Headmaster. Or has Dumbledore sent you here? Oh, donʹt tell me …ʹ He gave 
another shuddering yawn. `Another message for my worthless great‐great‐
grandson?ʹ 
Harry could not speak. Phineas Nigellus did not know that Sirius was dead, but 
Harry could not tell him. To say it aloud would be to make it final, absolute, 
irretrievable. 
A few more of the portraits had stirred now. Terror of being interrogated made 
Harry stride across the room and seize the doorknob. 
It would not turn. He was shut in. 
`I hope this means,ʹ said the corpulent, red‐nosed wizard who hung on the wall 
behind the Headmasterʹs desk, `that Dumbledore will soon be back among us?ʹ 

Harry turned. The wizard was surveying him with great interest. Harry nodded. 
He tugged again on the doorknob behind his back, but it remained immovable. 
`Oh good,ʹ said the wizard. `It has been very dull without him, very dull indeed.ʹ 
He settled himself on the throne‐like chair on which he had been painted and 
smiled benignly upon Harry 
ʹDumbledore thinks very highly of you, as I am sure you know,ʹ he said 
comfortably. `Oh yes. Holds you in great esteem.ʹ 
The guilt filling the whole of Harryʹs chest like some monstrous, weighty 
parasite, now writhed and squirmed. Harry could not stand this, he could not 
stand being himself any more … he had never felt more trapped inside his own 
head and body, never wished so intensely that he could be somebody; anybody, 
else … 
The empty fireplace burst into emerald green flame, making Harry leap away 
from the door, staring at the man spinning inside the grate. As Dumbledoreʹs tall 
form unfolded itself from the fire, the wizards and witches on the surrounding 
walls jerked awake, many of them giving cries of welcome. 
 
ʹThank you,ʹ said Dumbledore softly. 
He did not look at Harry at first, but walked over to the perch beside the door 
and withdrew, from an inside pocket of his robes, the tiny, ugly, featherless 
Fawkes, whom he placed gently on the tray of soft ashes beneath the golden post 
where the full‐grown Fawkes usually stood. 
`Well, Harry,ʹ said Dumbledore, finally turning away from the baby bird, `you 
will be pleased to hear that none of your fellow students are going to suffer 
lasting damage from the nightʹs events.ʹ 
Harry tried to say, `Good,ʹ but no sound came out. It seemed to him that 
Dumbledore was reminding him of the amount of damage he had caused, and 
although Dumbledore was for once looking at him directly, and although his 
expression was kindly rather than accusatory, Harry could not bear to meet his 
eyes. 

`Madam Pomfrey is patching everybody up,ʹ said Dumbledore. ʹNymphadora 
Tonks may need to spend a little time in St Mungoʹs, but it seems she will make a 
full recovery.ʹ 
Harry contented himself with nodding at the carpet, which was growing lighter 
as the sky outside grew paler. He was sure all the portraits around the room 
were listening closely to every word Dumbledore spoke, wondering where 
Dumbledore and Harry had been, and why there had been injuries. 
ʹI know how youʹre feeling, Harry,ʹ said Dumbledore very quietly. 
`No, you donʹt,ʹ said Harry, and his voice was suddenly loud and strong; white‐
hot anger leapt inside him; Dumbledore knew nothing about his feelings. 
`You see, Dumbledore?ʹ said Phineas Nigellus slyly `Never try to understand the 
students. They hate it. They would much rather be tragically misunderstood, 
wallow in self‐pity, stew in their own ‐ʹ 
`Thatʹs enough, Phineas,ʹ said Dumbledore. 
Harry turned his back on Dumbledore and stared determinedly out of the 
window. He could see the Quidditch stadium in the distance. Sirius had 
appeared there once, disguised as the shaggy black dog, so he could watch Harry 
play … he had probably come to see whether Harry was as good as James had 
been… Harry had never asked him … 
`There is no shame in what you are feeling, Harry,ʹ said 
Dumbledoreʹs voice. `On the contrary… the fact that you can feel pain like this is 
your greatest strength.ʹ 
Harry felt the white‐hot anger lick his insides, blazing in the terrible emptiness, 
filling him with the desire to hurt Dumbledore for his calmness and his empty 
words. 
`My greatest strength, is it?ʹ said Harry, his voice shaking as he stared out at the 
Quidditch stadium, no longer seeing it. `You havenʹt got a clue… you donʹt 
know…ʹ 

`What donʹt I know?ʹ asked Dumbledore calmly. 
It was too much. Harry turned around, shaking with rage. 
`I donʹt want to talk about how I feel, all right?T 
ʹHarry, suffering like this proves you are still a man! This pain is part of being 
human = 
`THEN ‐ I ‐ DONʹT ‐ WANT ‐ TO ‐ BE ‐ HUMAN!ʹ Harry roared, and he seized 
the delicate silver instrument from the spindlelegged table beside him and flung 
it across the room; it shattered into a hundred tiny pieces against the wall. 
Several of the pictures let out yells of anger and fright, and the portrait of 
Armando Dippet said, `Really!ʹ 
`I DONʹT CARE!ʹ Harry yelled at them, snatching up a lunascope and throwing it 
into the fireplace. `IʹVE HAD ENOUGH, IʹVE SEEN ENOUGH, I WANT OUT, I 
WANT IT TO END, I DONʹT CARE ANY MORE = 
He seized the table on which the silver instrument had stood and threw that, too. 
It broke apart on the floor and the legs rolled in different directions. 
`You do care,ʹ said Dumbledore. He had not flinched or made a single move to 
stop Harry demolishing his office. His expression was calm, almost detached. 
`You care so much you feel as though you will bleed to death with the pain of it.ʹ 
`I ‐ DONʹT!ʹ Harry screamed, so loudly that he felt his throat might tear, and for a 
second he wanted to rush at Dumbledore and break him, too; shatter that calm 
old face, shake him, hurt him, make him feel some tiny part of the horror inside 
himself. 
`Oh, yes, you do,ʹ said Dumbledore, still more calmly. `You have now lost your 
mother, your father, and the closest thing to a parent you have ever known. Of 
course you care.ʹ 
`YOU DONʹT KNOW HOW I FEEL!ʹ Harry roared. `YOU ‐ STANDING THERE ‐ 
YOU = 
But words were no longer enough, smashing things was no more 
help; he wanted to run, he wanted to keep running and never look back, he 
wanted to be somewhere he could not see the clear blue eyes staring at him, that 

hatefully calm old face. He turned on his heel and ran to the door, seized the 
doorknob again and wrenched at it. 
But the door would not open. 
Harry turned back to Dumbledore. 
`Let me out,ʹ he said. He was shaking from head to foot. 
`No,ʹ said Dumbledore., simply. 
For a few seconds they stared at each other. 
`Let me out,ʹ Harry said again. 
`No,ʹ Dumbledore repeated. 
 
`If you donʹt ‐ if you keep me in here ‐ if you donʹt let me = 
`By all means continue destroying my possessions,ʹ said Dumbledore serenely. `I 
daresay I have too many.ʹ 
He walked around his desk and sat down. behind it, watching 
 
Harry 
`Let me out,ʹ Harry said yet again, in a voice that was cold and almost as calm as 
Dumbledoreʹs. 
`Not until I have had my say,ʹ said Dumbledore. 
`Do you ‐ do you think I want to ‐ do you think I give a ‐ I DONʹT CARE WHAT 
YOUʹVE GOT TO SAY!ʹ Harry roared. `I donʹt want to hear anything youʹve got 
to say!ʹ 
`You will,ʹ said Dumbledore steadily. `Because you are not nearly as angry with 
me as you ought to be. If you are to attack me, as 
I know you are close to doing, I would like to have thoroughly earned it.ʹ 
`What are you talking ‐?T 
ʹIt is my fault that Sirius died,ʹ said Dumbledore clearly. `Or should I say, almost 
entirely my fault ‐ I will not be so arrogant as to claim responsibility for the 
whole. Sirius was a brave, clever and energetic man, and such men are not 
usually content to sit at home in hiding while they believe others to be in danger. 

Nevertheless, you should never have believed for an instant that there was any 
necessity 
for you to go to the Department of Mysteries tonight. If I had been open with 
you, Harry, as I should have been, you would have known a long time ago that 
Voldemort might try and lure you to the Department of Mysteries, and you 
would never have been tricked into going there tonight. And Sirius would not 
have had to come after you. That blame lies with me, and with me alone.ʹ 
Harry was still standing with his hand on the doorknob but was unaware of it. 
He was gazing at Dumbledore, hardly breathing, listening yet barely 
understanding what he was hearing. 
`Please sit down,ʹ said Dumbledore. It was not an order, it was a request. 
Harry hesitated, then walked slowly across the room now littered with silver 
cogs and fragments of wood, and took the seat facing Dumbledoreʹs desk. 
`Am I to understand,ʹ said Phineas Nigellus slowly from Harryʹs left, `that my 
great‐great‐grandson ‐ the last of the Blacks ‐ is dead?ʹ 
`Yes, Phineas,ʹ said Dumbledore. 
`I donʹt believe it,ʹ said Phineas brusquely. 
Harry turned his head in time to see Phineas marching out of his portrait and 
knew that he had gone to visit his other painting in Grimmauld Place. He would 
walk, perhaps, from portrait to portrait, calling for Sirius through the house … 
`Harry, I owe you an explanation,ʹ said Dumbledore. `An explanation of an old 
manʹs mistakes. For I see now that what I have done, and not done, with regard 
to you, bears all the hallmarks of the failings of age. Youth cannot know how age 
thinks and feels. But old men are guilty if they forget what it was to be young … 
and I seem to have forgotten, lately …ʹ 
The sun was rising properly now; there was a rim of dazzling orange visible over 
the mountains and the sky above it was colourless and bright. The light fell upon 
Dumbledore, upon the silver of his eyebrows and beard, upon the lines gouged 
deeply into his face. 

`I guessed, fifteen years ago,ʹ said Dumbledore, `when I saw the scar on your 
forehead, what it might mean. I guessed that it might be the sign of a connection 
forged between you and Voldemort.ʹ 
`Youʹve told me this before, Professor,ʹ said Harry bluntly. He did not care about 
being rude. He did not care about anything very much any more. 
`Yes,ʹ said Dumbledore apologetically. `Yes, but you see ‐ it is necessary to start 
with your scar. For it became apparent, shortly after you rejoined the magical 
world, that I was correct, and that your scar was giving you warnings when 
Voldemort was close to you, or else feeling powerful emotion.ʹ 
`I know,ʹ said Harry wearily 
`And this ability of yours ‐ to detect Voldemortʹs presence, even when he is 
disguised, and to know what he is feeling when his emotions are roused ‐ has 
become more and more pronounced since Voldemort returned to his own body 
and his full powers.ʹ 
Harry did not bother to nod. He knew all of this already. 
`More recentlyʹ said Dumbledore, `I became concerned that Voldemort might 
realise that this connection between you exists. Sure enough, there came a time 
when you entered so far into his mind and thoughts that he sensed your 
presence. I am speaking, of course, of the night when you witnessed the attack 
on Mr Weasleyʹ 
`Yeah, Snape told me,ʹ Harry muttered. 
`Professor Snape, Harryʹ Dumbledore corrected him quietly. `But did you not 
wonder why it was not I who explained this to you? Why I did not teach you 
Occlumency? Why I had not so much as looked at you for months?ʹ 
Harry looked up. He could see now that Dumbledore looked sad and tired. 
`Yeah,ʹ Harry mumbled. `Yeah, I wondered.ʹ 
`You see,ʹ Dumbledore continued, `I believed it could not be long before 
Voldemort attempted to force his way into your mind, to manipulate and 
misdirect your thoughts, and I was not eager to give him more incentives to do 
so. I was sure that if he realised that our relationship was ‐ or had ever been ‐ 

closer than that of headmaster and pupil, he would seize his chance to use you as 
a means to spy on me. I feared the uses to which he would put you, the 
possibility that he might try and possess you. Harry, I believe I was right to think 
that Voldemort would have made use of you 
in such a way. On those rare occasions when we had close contact, I thought I 
saw a shadow of him stir behind your eyes … 
Harry remembered the feeling that a dormant snake had risen in him, ready to 
strike, in those moments when he and Dumbledore had made eye‐contact. 
`Voldemortʹs aim in possessing you, as he demonstrated tonight, would not have 
been my destruction. It would have been yours. He hoped, when he possessed 
you briefly a short while ago, that I would sacrifice you in the hope of killing 
him. So you see, I have been trying, in distancing myself from you, to protect 
you, Harry. An old manʹs mistake …ʹ 
He sighed deeply. Harry was letting the words wash over him. He would have 
been so interested to know all this a few months ago, but now it was meaningless 
compared to the gaping chasm inside him that was the loss of Sirius; none of it 
mattered … 
ʹSirius told me you felt Voldemort awake inside you the very night that you had 
the vision of Arthur Weasleyʹs attack. I knew at once that my worst fears were 
correct: Voldemort had realised he could use you. In an attempt to arm you 
against Voldemortʹs assaults on your mind, I arranged Occlumency lessons with 
Professor Snape.ʹ 
He paused. Harry watched the sunlight, which was sliding slowly across the 
polished surface of Dumbledoreʹs desk, illuminate a silver ink pot and a 
handsome scarlet quill. Harry could tell that the portraits all around them were 
awake and listening raptly to Dumbledoreʹs explanation; he could hear the 
occasional rustle of robes, the slight clearing of a throat. Phineas Nigellus had 
still not returned … 
`Professor Snape discovered,ʹ Dumbledore resumed, `that you had been 
dreaming about the door to the Department of Mysteries for months. Voldemort, 
of course, had been obsessed with the possibility of hearing the prophecy ever 
since he regained his body; and as he dwelled on the door, so did you, though 
you did not know what it meant. 

`And then you saw Rockwood, who worked in the Department of Mysteries 
before his arrest, telling Voldemort what we had known all along ‐that the 
prophecies held in the Ministry of Magic are 
 
heavily protected. Only the people to whom they refer can lift them 
from the shelves without suffering madness: in this case, either Voldemort 
himself would have to enter the Ministry of Magic, and risk revealing himself at 
last ‐ or else you would have to take it for him. It became a matter of even greater 
urgency that you should master Occlumencyʹ 
`But I didnʹt,ʹ muttered Harry. He said it aloud to try and ease the dead weight of 
guilt inside him: a confession must surely relieve some of the terrible pressure 
squeezing his heart. `I didnʹt practise, I didnʹt bother, I couldʹve stopped myself 
having those dreams, Hermione kept telling me to do it, if I had heʹd never have 
been able to show me where to go, and ‐ Sirius wouldnʹt ‐ Sirius wouldnʹt = 
Something was erupting inside Harryʹs head: a need to justify himself, to explain 
‐ 
`I tried to check heʹd really taken Sirius, I went to Umbridgeʹs office, I spoke to 
Kreacher in the fire and he said Sirius wasnʹt there, he said heʹd gone!ʹ 
`Kreacher lied,ʹ said Dumbledore calmly. `You are not his master, he could lie to 
you without even needing to punish himself. Kreacher intended you to go to the 
Ministry of Magic.ʹ 
`He ‐ he sent me on purpose?T 
ʹOh yes. Kreacher, I am afraid, has been serving more than one master for 
months.ʹ 
`How?ʹ said Harry blankly. `He hasnʹt been out of Grimmauld 
 
Place for years.ʹ 
`Kreacher seized his opportunity shortly before Christmas,ʹ said Dumbledore, 
`when Sirius, apparently, shouted at him to ʺget outʺ. He took Sirius at his word, 
and interpreted this as an order to leave the house. He went to the only Black 

family member for whom he had any respect left … Blackʹs cousin Narcissa, 
sister of Bellatrix and wife of Lucius Malfoyʹ 
`How do you know all this?ʹ Harry said. His heart was beating very fast. He felt 
sick. He remembered worrying about Kreacherʹs odd absence over Christmas, 
remembered him turning up again 
 
in the attic … 
`Kreacher told me last night,ʹ said Dumbledore. `You see, when 
you gave Professor Snape that cryptic warning, he realised that you had had a 
vision of Sirius trapped in the bowels of the Department of Mysteries. He, like 
you, attempted to contact Sirius at once. I should explain that members of the 
Order of the Phoenix have more reliable methods of communicating than the fire 
in Dolores Umbridgeʹs office. Professor Snape found that Sirius was alive and 
safe in Grimmauld Place. 
`When, however, you did not return from your trip into the Forest with Dolores 
Umbridge, Professor Snape grew worried that you still believed Sirius to be a 
captive of Lord Voldemortʹs. He alerted certain Order members at once.ʹ 
Dumbledore heaved a great sigh and continued, `Alastor Moody, Nymphadora 
Tonks, Kingsley Shacklebolt and Remus Lupin were at Headquarters when he 
made contact. All agreed to go to your aid at once. Professor Snape requested 
that Sirius remain behind, as he needed somebody to remain at Headquarters to 
tell me what had happened, for I was due there at any moment. In the meantime 
he, Professor Snape, intended to search the Forest for you. 
`But Sirius did not wish to remain behind while the others went to search for 
you. He delegated to Kreacher the task of telling me what had happened. And so 
it was that when I arrived in Grimmauld Place shortly after they had all left for 
the Ministry, it was the elf who told me ‐ laughing fit to burst ‐ where Sirius had 
gone.ʹ 
`He was laughing?ʹ said Harry in a hollow voice. 
`Oh, yes,ʹ said Dumbledore. `You see, Kreacher was not able to betray us totally. 
He is not Secret Keeper for the Order, he could not give the Malfoys our 
whereabouts, or tell them any of the Orderʹs confidential plans that he had been 
forbidden to reveal. He was bound by the enchantments of his kind, which is to 

say that he could not disobey a direct order from his master, Sirius. But he gave 
Narcissa information of the sort that is very valuable to Voldemort, yet must 
have seemed much too trivial for Sirius to think of banning him from repeating 
it.ʹ 
`Like what?ʹ said Harry. 
`Like the fact that the person Sirius cared most about in the world was you,ʹ said 
Dumbledore quietly. `Like the fact that you were coming to regard Sirius as a 
mixture of father and brother. 
Voldemort knew already, of course, that Sirius was in the Order, and that you 
knew where he was ‐ but Kreacherʹs information made him realise that the one 
person for whom you would go to any lengths to rescue was Sirius Black.ʹ 
Harryʹs lips were cold and numb. 
`So… when I asked Kreacher if Sirius was there last night…ʹ 
`The Malfoys ‐ undoubtedly on Voldemortʹs instructions ‐ had told him he must 
find a way of keeping Sirius out of the way once you had seen the vision of Sirius 
being tortured. Then, if you decided to check whether Sirius was at home or not, 
Kreacher would be able to pretend he was not. Kreacher injured Buckbeak the 
Hippogriff yesterday, and, at the moment when you made your appearance in 
the fire, Sirius was upstairs tending to him.ʹ 
There seemed to be very little air in Harryʹs lungs; his breathing was quick and 
shallow. 
`And Kreacher told you all this… and laughed?ʹ he croaked. 
ʹHe did not wish to tell me,ʹ said Dumbledore. `But I am a sufficiently 
accomplished Legilimens myself to know when I am being lied to and I ‐ 
persuaded him ‐ to tell me the full story, before I left for the Department of 
Mysteries.ʹ 
`And,ʹ whispered Harry, his hands curled in cold fists on his knees, `and 
Hermione kept telling us to be nice to him = 
`She was quite right, Harry,ʹ said Dumbledore. `I warned Sirius when we 
adopted twelve Grimmauld Place as our Headquarters that Kreacher must be 
treated with kindness and respect. I also told him that Kreacher could be 

dangerous to us. I do not think Sinus took me very seriously, or that he ever saw 
Kreacher as a being with feelings as acute as a humanʹs = 
`Donʹt you blame ‐ donʹt you ‐ talk ‐ about Sirius like ‐ʹ Harryʹs breath was 
constricted, he could not get the words out properly; but the rage that had 
subsided briefly flared in him again: he would not let Dumbledore criticise 
Sirius. `Kreacherʹs a lying ‐ foul ‐ he deserved ‐ 
`Kreacher is what he has been made by wizards, Harryʹ said Dumbledore. `Yes, 
he is to be pitied. His existence has been as miserable as your friend Dobbyʹs. He 
was forced to do Siriusʹs bidding, because Sirius was the last of the family to 
which he was 
enslaved, but he felt no true loyalty to him. And whatever Kreacherʹs faults, it 
must be admitted that Sirius did nothing to make Kreacherʹs lot easier = 
`DONʹT TALK ABOUT SIRIUS LIKE THAT!ʹ Harry yelled. 
He was on his feet again, furious, ready to fly at Dumbledore, who had plainly 
not understood Sirius at all, how brave he was, how much he had suffered … 
`What about Snape?ʹ Harry spat. `Youʹre not talking about him, are you? When I 
told him Voldemort had Sirius he just sneered at me as usual ‐ 
`Harry, you know Professor Snape had no choice but to pretend not to take you 
seriously in front of Dolores Umbridge,ʹ said Dumbledore steadily, `but as I have 
explained, he informed the Order as soon as possible about what you had said. It 
was he who deduced where you had gone when you did not return from the 
Forest. It was he, too, who gave Professor Umbridge fake Veritaserum when she 
was attempting to force you to tell her Siriusʹs whereabouts.ʹ 
Harry disregarded this; he felt a savage pleasure in blaming Snape, it seemed to 
be easing his own sense of dreadful guilt, and he wanted to hear Dumbledore 
agree with him. 
`Snape ‐ Snape g ‐ goaded Sirius about staying in the house ‐ he made out Sirius 
was a coward = 
ʹSirius was much too old and clever to have allowed such feeble taunts to hurt 
him,ʹ said Dumbledore. 

`Snape stopped giving me Occlumency lessons!ʹ Harry snarled. `He threw me 
out of his office!ʹ 
`I am aware of it,ʹ said Dumbledore heavily `I have already said that it was a 
mistake for me not to teach you myself, though I was sure, at the time, that 
nothing could have been more dangerous than to open your mind even further 
to Voldemort while in my presence ‐ 
`Snape made it worse, my scar always hurt worse after lessons with him = Harry 
remembered Ronʹs thoughts on the subject and plunged on `‐ how do you know 
he wasnʹt trying to soften me up for Voldemort, make it easier for him to get 
inside my = 
`I trust Severus Snape,ʹ said Dumbledore simply `But I forgot ‐ 
another old manʹs mistake ‐ that some wounds run too deep for the healing. I 
thought Professor Snape could overcome his feelings about your father ‐ I was 
wrong.ʹ 
`But thatʹs OK, is it?ʹ yelled Harry, ignoring the scandalised faces and 
disapproving mutterings of the portraits on the walls. `Itʹs OK for Snape to hate 
my dad, but itʹs not OK for Sirius to hate Kreacher?ʹ 
ʹSirius did not hate Kreacher,ʹ said Dumbledore. `He regarded him as a servant 
unworthy of much interest or notice. Indifference and neglect often do much 
more damage than outright dislike … the fountain we destroyed tonight told a 
lie. We wizards have mistreated and abused our fellows for too long, and we are 
now reaping our reward.ʹ 
`SO SIRIUS DESERVED WHAT HE GOT, DID HE?ʹ Harry yelled. 
`I did not say that, nor will you ever hear me say it,ʹ Dumbledore replied quietly. 
`Sinus was not a cruel man, he was kind to houseelves in general. He had no love 
for Kreacher, because Kreacher was a living reminder of the home Sirius had 
hated.ʹ 
`Yeah, he did hate it!ʹ said Harry, his voice cracking, turning his back on 
Dumbledore and walking away. The sun was bright inside the room now and 
the eyes of all the portraits followed him as he walked, without realising what he 
was doing, without seeing the office at all. `You made him stay shut up in that 
house and he hated it, thatʹs why he wanted to get out last night = 

`I was trying to keep Sirius alive,ʹ said Dumbledore quietly 
`People donʹt like being locked up!ʹ Harry said furiously, rounding on him. `You 
did it to me all last summer = 
Dumbledore closed his eyes and buried his face in his longfingered hands. Harry 
watched him, but this uncharacteristic sign of exhaustion, or sadness, or 
whatever it was from Dumbledore, did not soften him. On the contrary, he felt 
even angrier that Dumbledore was showing signs of weakness. He had no 
business being weak when Harry wanted to rage and storm at him. 
Dumbledore lowered his hands and surveyed Harry through his half‐moon 
glasses. 
ʹIt is time,ʹ he said, `for me to tell you what I should have told you five years ago, 
Harry. Please sit down. I am going to tell you everything. I ask only a little 
patience. You will have your chance 
to rage at me ‐ to do whatever you like ‐ when I have finished. I will not stop 
you.ʹ 
Harry glared at him for a moment, then flung himself back into the chair 
opposite Dumbledore and waited. 
Dumbledore stared for a moment at the sunlit grounds outside the window, then 
looked back at Harry and said, `Five years ago you arrived at Hogwarts, Harry, 
safe and whole, as I had planned and intended. Well ‐ not quite whole. You had 
suffered. I knew you would when I left you on your aunt and uncleʹs doorstep. I 
knew I was condemning you to ten dark and difficult years.ʹ 
He paused. Harry said nothing. 
`You might ask ‐ and with good reason ‐ why it had to be so. Why could some 
wizarding family not have taken you in? Many would have done so more than 
gladly, would have been honoured and delighted to raise you as a son. 
`My answer is that my priority was to keep you alive. You were in more danger 
than perhaps anyone but I realised. Voldemort had been vanquished hours 
before, but his supporters ‐ and many of them are almost as terrible as he ‐ were 
still at large, angry, desperate and violent. And I had to make my decision, too, 
with regard to the years ahead. Did I believe that Voldemort was gone for ever? 

No. I knew not whether it would be ten, twenty or fifty years before he returned, 
but I was sure he would do so, and I was sure, too, knowing him as I have done, 
that he would not rest until he killed you. 
`I knew that Voldemortʹs knowledge of magic is perhaps more extensive than 
any wizard alive. I knew that even my most complex and powerful protective 
spells and charms were unlikely to be invincible if he ever returned to full 
power. 
`But I knew, too, where Voldemort was weak. And so I made my decision. You 
would be protected by an ancient magic of which he knows, which he despises, 
and which he has always, therefore, underestimated ‐ to his cost. I am speaking, 
of course, of the fact that your mother died to save you. She gave you a lingering 
protection he never expected, a protection that flows in your veins to this day. I 
put my trust, therefore, in your motherʹs blood. I delivered you to her sister, her 
only remaining relative.ʹ 
`She doesnʹt love me,ʹ said Harry at once. `She doesnʹt give a damn ‐ 
`But she took you,ʹ Dumbledore cut across him. `She may have taken you 
grudgingly, furiously, unwillingly, bitterly, yet still she took you, and in doing 
so, she sealed the charm I placed upon you. Your motherʹs sacrifice made the 
bond of blood the strongest shield I could give you.ʹ 
`I still donʹt = 
`While you can still call home the place where your motherʹs blood dwells, there 
you cannot be touched or harmed by Voldemort. He shed her blood, but it lives 
on in you and her sister. Her blood became your refuge. You need return there 
only once a year, but as long as you can still call it home, whilst you are there he 
cannot hurt you. Your aunt knows this. I explained what I had done in the letter I 
left, with you, on her doorstep. She knows that allowing you houseroom may 
well have kept you alive for the past fifteen years.ʹ 
`Wait,ʹ said Harry. `Wait a moment.ʹ 
He sat up straighter in his chair, staring at Dumbledore. 
`You sent that Howler. You told her to remember ‐ it was your voice ‐ 

`I thought,ʹ said Dumbledore, inclining his head slightly, `that she might need 
reminding of the pact she had sealed by taking you. I suspected the Dementor 
attack might have awoken her to the dangers of having you as a surrogate son.ʹ 
`It did,ʹ said Harry quietly. `Well ‐ my uncle more than her. He wanted to chuck 
me out, but after the Howler came she ‐ she said I had to stayʹ 
He stared at the floor for a moment, then said, `But whatʹs this got to do with = 
He could not say Sinusʹs name. 
`Five years ago, then,ʹ continued Dumbledore, as though he had not paused in 
his story, `you arrived at Hogwarts, neither as happy nor as well‐nourished as I 
would have liked, perhaps, yet alive and healthy You were not a pampered little 
prince, but as normal a boy as I could have hoped under the circumstances. Thus 
far, my plan was working well. 
`And then … well, you will remember the events of your first year at Hogwarts 
quite as clearly as I do. You rose magnificently to the challenge that faced you 
and sooner ‐ much sooner ‐ than I had anticipated, you found yourself face to 
face with Voldemort. You survived again. You did more. You delayed his return 
to full power and strength. You fought a manʹs fight. I was … prouder of you 
than I can say. 
`Yet there was a flaw in this wonderful plan of mine,ʹ said Dumbledore. `An 
obvious flaw that I knew, even then, might be the undoing of it all. And yet, 
knowing how important it was that my plan should succeed, I told myself that I 
would not permit this flaw to ruin it. I alone could prevent this, so I alone must 
be strong. And here was my first test, as you lay in the hospital wing, weak from 
your struggle with Voldemort.ʹ 
`I donʹt understand what youʹre saying,ʹ said Harry. 
`Donʹt you remember asking me, as you lay in the hospital wing, why Voldemort 
had tried to kill you when you were a baby?ʹ 
Harry nodded. 
`Ought I to have told you then?ʹ 
Harry stared into the blue eyes and said nothing, but his heart was racing again. 

`You do not see the flaw in the plan yet? No … perhaps not. Well, as you know, I 
decided not to answer you. Eleven, I told myself, was much too young to know. I 
had never intended to tell you when you were eleven. The knowledge would be 
too much at such a young age. 
`I should have recognised the danger signs then. I should have asked myself why 
I did not feel more disturbed that you had already asked me the question to 
which I knew, one day, I must give a terrible answer. I should have recognised 
that I was too happy to think that I did not have to do it on that particular day … 
YOU were too young, much too young. 
`And so we entered your second year at Hogwarts. And once again you met 
challenges even grown wizards have never faced: once again you acquitted 
yourself beyond my wildest dreams. You did not ask me again, however, why 
Voldemort had left that marl; on you. We discussed your scar, oh yes … we came 
very, very 
 
close to the subject. Why did I not tell you everything? 
`Well, it seemed to me that twelve was, after all, hardly better than eleven to 
receive such information. I allowed you to leave my presence, bloodstained, 
exhausted but exhilarated, and if I felt a twinge of unease that I ought, perhaps, 
to have told you then, it was swiftly silenced. You were still so young, you see, 
and I could not find it in myself to spoil that night of triumph … 
`Do you see, Harry? Do you see the flaw in my brilliant plan now? I had fallen 
into the trap I had foreseen, that I had told myself I could avoid, that I must 
avoid.ʹ 
`I donʹt ‐ 
`I cared about you toy much,ʹ said Dumbledore simply. `I cared more for your 
happiness than your knowing the truth, more for your peace of mind than my 
plan, more for your life than the lives that might be lost if the plan failed. In other 
words, I acted exactly as Voldemort expects we fools who love to act. 
`Is there a defence? I defy anyone who has watched you as I have ‐ and I have 
watched you more closely than you can have imagined ‐ not to want to save you 
more pain than you had already suffered. What did I care if numbers of nameless 
and faceless people and creatures were slaughtered in the vague future, if in the 

here and now you were alive, and well, and happy? I never dreamed that I 
would have such a person on my hands. 
`We entered your third year. I watched from afar as you struggled to repel 
Dementors, as you found Sirius, learned what he was and rescued him. Was I to 
tell you then, at the moment when you had triumphantly snatched your 
godfather from the jaws of the Ministry? But now, at the age of thirteen, my 
excuses were running out. Young you might be, but you had proved you were 
exceptional. My conscience was uneasy, Harry. I knew the time must come soon 
… 
`But you came out of the maze last year, having watched Cedric Diggory die, 
having escaped death so narrowly yourself … and I did not tell you, though I 
knew, now Voldemort had returned, I must do it soon. And now, tonight, I know 
you have long been ready for the knowledge I have kept from you for so long, 
because you have proved that I should have placed the burden upon you 
before this. My only defence is this: I have watched you struggling under more 
burdens than any student who has ever passed through this school and I could 
not bring myself to add another ‐ the greatest one of all.ʹ 
Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not speak. 
`I still donʹt understand.ʹ 
`Voldemort tried to kill you when you were a child because of a prophecy made 
shortly before your birth. He knew the prophecy had been made, though he did 
not know its full contents. He set out to kill you when you were still a baby, 
believing he was fulfilling the terms of the prophecy. He discovered, to his cost, 
that he was mistaken, when the curse intended to kill you backfired. And so, 
since his return to his body, and particularly since your extraordinary escape 
from him last year, he has been determined to hear that prophecy in its entirety. 
This is the weapon he has been seeking so assiduously since his return: the 
knowledge of how to destroy you.ʹ 
The sun had risen fully now: Dumbledoreʹs office was bathed in it. The glass case 
in which the sword of Godric Gryffindor resided gleamed white and opaque, the 
fragments of the instruments Harry had thrown to the floor glistened like 
raindrops, and behind him, the baby Fawkes made soft chirruping noises in his 
nest of ashes. 

`The prophecyʹs smashed,ʹ Harry said blankly. `I was pulling Neville up those 
benches in the ‐ the room where the archway was, and I ripped his robes and it 
fell …ʹ 
`The thing that smashed was merely the record of the prophecy kept by the 
Department of Mysteries. But the prophecy was made to somebody, and that 
person has the means of recalling it perfectlyʹ 
`Who heard it?ʹ asked Harry, though he thought he knew the answer already 
`I did,ʹ said Dumbledore. `On a cold, wet night sixteen years ago, in a room 
above the bar at the Hogʹs Head inn. I had gone there to see an applicant for the 
post of Divination teacher, though it was against my inclination to allow the 
subject of Divination to continue at all. The applicant, however, was the great‐
great‐granddaughter of a very famous, very gifted Seer and I thought it common 
politeness to meet her. I was disappointed. It seemed to me that she had not 
a trace of the gift herself. I told her, courteously I hope, that I did not think she 
would be suitable for the post. I turned to leave.ʹ 
Dumbledore got to his feet and walked past Harry to the black cabinet that stood 
beside Fawkesʹs perch. He bent down, slid back a catch and took from inside it 
the shallow stone basin, carved with runes around the edges, in which Harry had 
seen his father tormenting Snape. Dumbledore walked back to the desk, placed 
the Pensieve upon it, and raised his wand to his own temple. From it, he 
withdrew silvery, gossamer‐fine strands of thought clinging to the wand and 
deposited them into the basin. He sat back down behind his desk and watched 
his thoughts swirl and drift inside the Pensieve for a moment. Then, with a sigh, 
he raised his wand and prodded the silvery substance with its tip. 
A figure rose out of it, draped in shawls, her eyes magnified to 
enormous size behind her glasses, and she revolved slowly; her feet in the basin. 
But when Sybill Trelawney spoke, it was not in her usual ethereal, mystic voice, 
but in the harsh, hoarse tones Harry had heard her use once before: 
`The one with the power to vanquish thʹe‐ Dark Lord approaches… born to those who 
have thrice defied him, born as the seventh month dies … and the Dark Lord will mark 
him as his equal, but he will havc

power the Dark Lord knows not … and either must die at the hand of the other for neither 
can live while the other survives … the one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord 
will be born as the seventh month dies …ʹ 
The slowly revolving Professor Trelawney sank back into the silver mass below 
and vanished. 
The silence within the office was absolute. Neither Dumbledore nor Harry nor 
any of the portraits made a sound. Even Fawkes had fallen silent. 
`Professor Dumbledore?ʹ Harry said very quietly, for Dumbledore, still staring at 
the Pensieve, seemed completely lost in thought. It .. did that mean … what did 
that mean?T 
ʹIt meant,ʹ said Dumbledore, `that the person who has the only chance of 
conquering Lord Voldemort for good was born at the end of July, nearly sixteen 
years ago. This boy would be born to parents who had already defied Voldemort 
three times.ʹ 
Harry felt as though something was closing in on him. His breathing seemed 
difficult again. 
`It means ‐ me?ʹ 
Dumbledore surveyed him for a moment through his glasses. 
`The odd thing, Harry,ʹ he said softly, `is that it may not have meant you at all. 
Sybillʹs prophecy could have applied to two wizard boys, both born at the end of 
July that year, both of whom had parents in the Order of the Phoenix, both sets 
of parents having narrowly escaped Voldemort three times. One, of course, was 
you. The other was Neville Longbottom.ʹ 
`But then … but then, why was it my name on the prophecy and not Nevilleʹs?ʹ 
`The official record was re‐labelled after Voldemortʹs attack on you as a child,ʹ 
said Dumbledore. `It seemed plain to the keeper of the Hall of Prophecy that 
Voldemort could only have tried to kill you because he knew you to be the one to 
whom Sybill was referring.ʹ 
`Then ‐ it might not be me?ʹ said Harry 

`I am afraid,ʹ said Dumbledore slowly, looking as though every word cost him a 
great effort, `that there is no doubt that it is you. 
`But you said ‐ Neville was born at the end of July, too ‐ and his mum and dad = 
`You are forgetting the next part of the prophecy, the final identifying feature of 
the boy who could vanquish Voldemort … Voldemort himself would mark him as 
his equal. And so he did, Harry He chose you, not Neville. He gave you the scar 
that has proved both blessing and curse.ʹ 
`But he might have chosen wrong!ʹ said Harry. `He might have marked the 
wrong person!ʹ 
`He chose the boy he thought most likely to be a danger to him,ʹ said 
Dumbledore. `And notice this, Harry: he chose, not the pureblood (which, 
according to his creed, is the only kind of wizard worth being or knowing) but 
the half‐blood, like himself. He saw himself in you before he had ever seen you, 
and in marking you with that scar, he did not kill you, as he intended, but gave 
you powers, and a future, which have fitted you to escape him not once, but four 
times so far ‐ something that neither your parents, nor Nevilleʹs parents, ever 
achieved.ʹ 
`Why did he do it, then?ʹ said Harry, who felt numb and cold. `Why did he try 
and kill me as a baby? He should have waited to see whether Neville or I looked 
more dangerous when we were older and tried to kill whoever it was then = 
`That might, indeed, have been the more practical course,ʹ said Dumbledore, 
`except that Voldemortʹs information about the prophecy was incomplete. The 
Hogʹs Head inn, which Sybill chose for its cheapness, has long attracted, shall we 
say, a more interesting clientele than the Three Broomsticks. As you and your 
friends found out to your cost, and I to mine that night, it is a place where it is 
never safe to assurpe you are not being overheard. Of course, I had not dreamed, 
when I set out to meet Sybill Trelawney, that I would hear anything worth 
overhearing. My ‐ our ‐ one stroke of good fortune was that the eavesdropper 
was detected only a short way into the prophecy and thrown from the building.ʹ 
`So he only heard ‐?T 
ʹHe heard only the beginning, the part foretelling the birth of a boy in July to 
parents who had thrice defied Voldemort. Consequently, he could not warn his 
master that to attack you would be to risk transferring power to you, and 

marking you as his equal. So Voldemort never knew that there might be danger 
in attacking you, that it might be wise to wait, to learn more. He did not know 
that you would have power the Dark Lord knows not =
`But I donʹt!ʹ said Harry, in a strangled voice. `I havenʹt any powers he hasnʹt got, 
I couldnʹt fight the way he did tonight, I canʹt possess people or ‐ or kill them ‐ʹ 
`There is a room in the Department of Mysteries,ʹ interrupted Dumbledore, `that 
is kept locked at all times. It contains a force that is at once more wonderful and 
more terrible than death, than human intelligence, than the forces of nature. It is 
also, perhaps, the most mysterious of the many subjects for study that reside 
there. It is the power held within that room that you possess in such quantities 
and which Voldemort has not at all. That power took you to save Sirius tonight. 
That power also saved you from possession by Voldemort, because he could not 
bear to reside in a body so full of the force he detests. In the end, it mattered not 
that you could not close your mind. It was your heart that saved you.ʹ 
Harry closed his eyes. If he had not gone to save Sirius, Sirius would not have 
died… More to stave off the moment when he would have to think of Sirius 
again, Harry asked, without caring much about the answer, `The end of the 
prophecy… it was something about… neither can live…ʹ 
`… while the other survives,ʹ said Dumbledore. 
`So,ʹ said Harry, dredging up the words from what felt like a deep well of 
despair inside him, `so does that mean that… that one of us has got to kill the 
other one… in the end?ʹ 
`Yes,ʹ said Dumbledore. 
For a long time, neither of them spoke. Somewhere far beyond the office walls, 
Harry could hear the sound of voices, students heading down to the Great Hall 
for an early breakfast, perhaps. It seemed impossible that there could be people 
in the world who still desired food, who laughed, who neither knew nor cared 
that Sirius Black was gone for ever. Sirius seemed a million miles away already; 
even now a part of Harry still believed that if he had only pulled back that veil, 
he would have found Sirius looking back at him, greeting him, perhaps, with his 
laugh like a bark… 
`I feel I owe you another explanation, Harry,ʹ said Dumbledore hesitantly. `You 
may, perhaps, have wondered why I never chose you as a prefect? I must 

confess… that I rather thought… you had enough responsibility to be going on 
with.ʹ 
Harry looked up at him and saw a tear trickling down Dumbledoreʹs face into his 
long silver beard 
‐ CHAPTER THIRTY‐EIGHT 

The Second War Begins
 
HE WHO MUST NOT BE NAMED RETURNS
 
`In a brief statement on Friday night, Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge confirmed 
that He Who Must Not Be Named has returned to this country and is once more active.
ʺ`It is with great regret that I must confirm that the wizard styling himself Lord ‐ well, 
you know who I mean ‐ is alive and among us again,ʺ said Fudge, looking tired and 
flustered as he addressed reporters. ʺIt is with almost equal regret that we report the mass 
revolt of the Dementors of Azkaban, who have shown themselves averse to continuing in 
the Ministryʹs employ. We believe the Dementors are currently taking direction from 
Lord ‐ Thingy.
ʺ`We urge the magical population to remain vigilant. The Ministry is currently 
publishing guides to elementary home and personal defence which will be delivered free to 
all wizarding homes within the coming month. ʺ
`The Ministerʹs statement was met with dismay and alarm from the wizarding 
community, which as recently as last Wednesday was receiving Ministry assurances that 
there was ʺno truth whatsoever in these persistent rumours that You‐Know‐Who is 
operating amongst us once moreʺ.
`Details of the events that led to the Ministry turnaround are still hazy, though it is 
believed that He Who Must Not Be Named and a select band of followers (known as 
Death Eaters) gained entry to the Ministry of Magic itself on Thursday evening.
ʹAlbus Dumbledore, newly reinstated Headmaster of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and 
Wizardry, reinstated member of the International Confederation of Wizards and 
reinstated Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, has so far been unavailable for com 

ment. He has insisted over the past year that You‐Know‐Who is 
not dead, as was widely hoped and believed, but is recruiting fol 
lowers once more for afresh attempt to seize power. Meanwhile, 
the ʺBoy Who Livedʺ ‐
`There you are, Harry, I knew theyʹd drag you into it somehow,ʹ said Hermione, 
looking over the top of the paper at him. 
They were in the hospital wing. Harry was sitting on the end of Ronʹs bed and 
they were both listening to Hermione read the front page of the Sunday Prophet. 
Ginny, whose ankle had been mended in a trice by Madam Pomfrey, was curled 
up at the foot of Hermioneʹs bed; Neville, whose nose had likewise been returned 
to its normal size and shape, was in a chair between the two beds; and Luna, 
who had dropped in to visit, clutching the latest edition of The Quibbler, was 
reading the magazine upside‐down and apparently not taking in a word 
Hermione was saying. 
`Heʹs the ʺboy who livedʺ again now, though, isnʹt he?ʹ said Ron darkly. `Not 
such a deluded show‐off any more, eh?ʹ 
He helped himself to a handful of Chocolate Frogs from the immense pile on his 
bedside cabinet, threw a few to Harry, Ginny and Neville and ripped off the 
wrapper of his own with his teeth. There were still deep welts on his forearms 
where the brainʹs tentacles had wrapped around him. According to Madam 
Pomfrey, thoughts could leave deeper scarring than almost anything else, though 
since she had started applying copious amounts of Dr Ubblyʹs Oblivious Unction 
there seemed to have been some improvement. 
`Yes, theyʹre very complimentary about you now, Harry,ʹ said Hermione, 
scanning down the article. ʺ`A lone voice of truth… perceived as unbalanced, yet 
never wavered in his story… forced to bear ridicule and slander… ʺ H mmm,ʹ she said, 
frowning, `I notice they donʹt mention the fact that it was them doing all the 
ridiculing and slandering in the Prophet…ʹ
She winced slightly and put a hand to her ribs. The curse Dolohov had used on 
her, though less effective than it would have been had he been able to say the 
incantation aloud, had nevertheless caused, in Madam Pomfreyʹs words, `quite 
enough damage 

to be going on withʹ. Hermione was having to take ten different types of potion 
every day, was improving greatly, and was already bored with the hospital 
wing. 
`You‐Know‐Whoʹs Last Attempt to Take Over, pages two to four, What the Ministry 
Should Have Told Us, page five, Why Nobody Listened to Albus Dumbledore, pages six 
to eight, Exclusive Interview with Harry Potter, page nine… Well,ʹ said Hermione, 
folding up the newspaper and throwing it aside, `itʹs certainly given them lots to 
write about. And that interview with Harry isnʹt exclusive, itʹs the one that was 
in The Quibbler months ago…ʹ 
`Daddy sold it to them,ʹ said Luna vaguely, turning a page of The Quibbler. `He 
got a very good price for it, too, so weʹre going to go on an expedition to Sweden 
this summer to see if we can catch a Crumple‐Horned Snorkack.ʹ 
Hermione seemed to struggle with herself for a moment, then said, `That sounds 
lovelyʹ 
Ginny caught Harryʹs eye and looked away quickly, grinning. 
`So, anyway,ʹ said Hermione, sitting up a little straighter and wincing again, 
`whatʹs going on in school?T 
ʹWell, Flitwickʹs got rid of Fred and Georgeʹs swamp,ʹ said Ginny, `he did it in 
about three seconds. But he left a tiny patch under the window and heʹs roped it 
off = 
Why?ʹ said Hermione, looking startled. 
`Oh, he just says it was a really good bit of magic,ʹ said Ginny, shrugging. 
`I think he left it as a monument to Fred and George,ʹ said Ron, through a 
mouthful of chocolate. `They sent me all these, you know,ʹ he told Harry, 
pointing at the small mountain of Frogs beside him. `Must be doing all right out 
of that joke shop, eh?ʹ 
Hermione looked rather disapproving and asked, `So has all the trouble stopped 
now Dumbledoreʹs back?ʹ 
`Yes,ʹ said Neville, `everythingʹs settled right back to normal.ʹ 

`Iʹsʹpose Filch is happy, is he?ʹ asked Ron, propping a Chocolate Frog Card 
featuring Dumbledore against his water jug. 
`Not at all,ʹ said Ginny `Heʹs really, really miserable, actually…ʹ She lowered her 
voice to a whisper. `He keeps saying Umbridge was the best thing that ever 
happened to Hogwarts… 
All six of them looked around. Professor Umbridge was lying in a bed opposite 
them, gazing up at the ceiling. Dumbledore had strode alone into the Forest to 
rescue her from the centaurs; how he had done it ‐ how he had emerged from the 
trees supporting Professor Umbridge without so much as a scratch on him ‐ 
nobody knew, and Umbridge was certainly not telling. Since she had returned to 
the castle she had not, as far as any of them knew, uttered a single word. Nobody 
really knew what was wrong with her, either. Her usually neat mousy hair was 
very untidy and there were still bits of twigs and leaves in it, but otherwise she 
seemed to be quite unscathed. 
`Madam Pomfrey says sheʹs just in shock,ʹ whispered Hermione. 
`Sulking, more like,ʹ said Ginny 
`Yeah, she shows signs of life if you do this,ʹ said Ron, and with his tongue he 
made soft clip‐clopping noises. Umbridge sat bolt upright, looking around 
wildly. 
`Anything wrong, Professor?ʹ called Madam Pomfrey, poking her head around 
her office door. 
`No… no…ʹ said Umbridge, sinking back into her pillows. `No, I must have been 
dreaming…ʹ 
Hermione and Ginny muffled their laughter in the bedclothes. 
`Speaking of centaurs,ʹ said Hermione, when she had recovered a little, `whoʹs 
Divination teacher now? Is Firenze staying?ʹ 
`Heʹs got to,ʹ said Harry, `the other centaurs wonʹt take him back, will they?ʹ 
`It looks like he and Trelawney are both going to teach,ʹ said Ginny 

`Bet Dumbledore wishes he couldʹve got rid of Trelawney for good,ʹ said Ron, 
now munching on his fourteenth Frog. `Mind you, the whole subjectʹs useless if 
you ask me, Firenze isnʹt a lot better…ʹ 
`How can you say that?ʹ Hermione demanded. `After weʹve just found out that 
there are real prophecies?ʹ 
Harryʹs heart began to race. He had not told Ron, Hermione or anyone else what 
the prophecy had contained. Neville had told them it had smashed while Harry 
was pulling him up the steps in the Death Room and Harry had not yet corrected 
this impression. He was not ready to see their expressions when he told them 
that he must be either murderer or victim, there was no other way… 
`It is a pity it broke,ʹ said Hermione quietly, shaking her head. 
`Yeah, it is,ʹ said Ron. `Still, at least You‐Know‐Who never found out what was in 
it either ‐ where are you going?ʹ he added, looking both surprised and 
disappointed as Harry stood up. 
`Er ‐ Hagridʹs,ʹ said Harry. `You know, he just got back and I promised Iʹd go 
down and see him and tell him how you two are.ʹ 
`Oh, all right then,ʹ said Ron grumpily, looking out of the dormitory window at 
the patch of bright blue sky beyond. `Wish we could come.ʹ 
`Say hello to him fir us!ʹ called Hermione, as Harry proceeded down the ward. 
`And ask him whatʹs happening about… about his little friend!ʹ 
Harry gave a wave of his hand to show he had heard and understood as he left 
the dormitory. 
The castle seemed very quiet even for a Sunday. Everybody was clearly out in 
the sunny grounds, enjoying the end of their exams and the prospect of a last few 
days of term unhampered by revision or homework. Harry walked slowly along 
the deserted corridor, peering out of windows as he went; he could see people 
messing around in the air over the Quidditch pitch and a couple of students 
swimming in the lake, accompanied by the giant squid. 
He was finding it hard to decide whether he wanted to be with people or not; 
whenever he was in company he wanted to get away and whenever he was 

alone he wanted company. He thought he might really go and visit Hagrid, 
though, as he had not talked to him properly since heʹd returned… 
Harry had just descended the last marble step into the Entrance Hall when 
Malloy, Crabbe and Goyle emerged from a door on the right that Harry knew led 
down to the Slytherin common room. Harry stopped dead; so did Malfoy and 
the others. The only sounds were the shouts, laughter and splashes drifting into 
the Hall from the grounds through the open front doors. 
Malfoy glanced around ‐ Harry knew he was checking for signs of teachers ‐ then 
he looked back at Harry and said in a low voice, `Youʹre dead, Potter.ʹ 
 
 
Harry raised his eyebrows. 
Funnyʹ he said, `youʹd think Iʹd have stopped walking around…ʹ 
Malloy looked angrier than Harry had ever seen him; he felt a kind of detached 
satisfaction at the sight of his pale, pointed face contorted with rage. 
ʹYouʹre going to pay,ʹ said Malloy in a voice barely louder than a whisper. `Iʹm 
going to make you pay for what youʹve done to my father…ʹ 
`Well, Iʹm terrified now,ʹ said Harry sarcastically. `Iʹsʹpose Lord Voldemortʹs just 
a warm‐up act compared to you three ‐ whatʹs the matter?ʹ he added, for Malfoy 
Crabbe and Goyle had all looked stricken at the sound of the name. `Heʹs a mate 
of your dad, isnʹt he? Not scared of him, are you?T 
ʹYou think youʹre such a big man, Potter,ʹ said Malfoy, advancing now, Crabbe 
and Goyle flanking him. `You wait. Iʹll have you. You canʹt land my father in 
prison = 
`I thought 1 just had,ʹ said Harry. 
`The Dementors have left Azkaban,ʹ said Malfoy quietly. `Dad and the othersʹll 
be out in no time…ʹ 
`Yeah, I expect they will,ʹ said Harry `Still, at least everyone knows what 
scumbags they are now = 

Malfoyʹs hand flew towards his wand, but Harry was too quick for him; he had 
drawn his own wand before Malfoyʹs fingers had even entered the pocket of his 
robes. 
`Potter!ʹ 
The voice rang across the Entrance Hall. Snape had emerged from the staircase 
leading down to his office and at the sight of him Harry felt a great rush of 
hatred beyond anything he felt towards Malloy… whatever Dumbledore said, he 
would never forgive Snape… never… 
`What are you doing, Potter?ʹ said Snape, as coldly as ever, as he strode over to 
the four of them. 
ʹ1ʹm trying to decide what curse to use on Malloy, sir,ʹ said Harry fiercely. 
Snape stared at him. 
`Put that wand away at once,ʹ he said curtly. `Ten points from Gryff‐ʹ 
Snape looked towards the giant hour‐glasses on the walls and gave a sneering 
smile. 
`Ah. I see there are no longer any points left in the Gryffindor hour‐glass to take 
away. In that case, Potter, we will simply have to ‐ 
`Add some more?ʹ 
Professor McGonagall had just stumped up the stone steps into the castle; she 
was carrying a tartan carpetbag in one hand and leaning heavily on a walking 
stick with her other, but otherwise looked quite well. 
`Professor McGonagall!ʹ said Snape, striding forwards. `Out of St Mungoʹs, I see!ʹ 
`Yes, Professor Snape,ʹ said Professor McGonagall, shrugging off her travelling 
cloak, `Iʹm quite as good as new. You two ‐ Crabbe ‐ Goyle = 
She beckoned them forwards imperiously and they came, shuffling their large 
feet and looking awkward. 

`Here,ʹ said Professor McGonagall, thrusting her carpetbag into Crabbeʹs chest 
and her cloak into Goyleʹs; `take these up to my office for me.ʹ 
They turned and stumped away up the marble staircase. 
`Right then,ʹ said Professor McGonagall, looking up at the hourglasses on the 
wall. `Well, I think Potter and his friends ought to have fifty points apiece for 
alerting the world to the return of YouKnow‐Who! What say you, Professor 
Snape?ʹ 
What?ʹ snapped Snape, though Harry knew he had heard perfectly well. `Oh ‐ 
well ‐ I suppose…ʹ 
`So thatʹs fifty each for Potter, the two Weasleys, Longbottom and Miss Granger,ʹ 
said Professor McGanagall, and a shower of rubies fell down into the bottom 
bulb of Gryffindorʹs hour‐glass as she spoke. `Oh ‐ and fifty for Miss Lovegood, I 
suppose,ʹ she added, and a number of sapphires fell into Ravenclawʹs glass. 
`Now, you wanted to take ten from Mr Potter, I think, Professor Snape ‐ so there 
we are…ʹ 
A few rubies retreated into the upper bulb, leaving a respectable amount below 
nevertheless. 
`Well, Potter, Malloy I think you ought to be outside on a 
752 
 
HARRY POTTER 
 
glorious day like this,ʹ Professor McGonagall continued briskly. 
Harry did not need telling twice‐ he thrust his wand back inside his robes and 
headed straight for the front doors without another glance at Snape and Malfoy. 
The hot sun hit him with a blast as he walked across the lawns towards 
Hagridʹscabin. Students lying around on the grass sunbathing, talking, reading 
the Sunday Prophet and eating sweets, looked up at him as he passed; some 
called out to him, or else waved, clearly eager to show that they, like the Prophet, 
had decided he was something of a hero. Harry said nothing to any of them. He 
had no idea how much they knew of what had happened three days ago, but he 
had so far avoided being questioned and preferred to keep it that way. 

He thought at first when he knocked on Hagridʹs cabin door that he was out, but 
then Fang came charging around the corner and almost bowled him over with 
the enthusiasm of his welcome. Hagrid, it transpired, was picking runner beans 
in his back garden. 
`All righʹ, Harry!ʹ he said, beaming, when Harry approached the fence. `Come in, 
come in, weʹll have a cup oʹ dandelion juice… 
`Howʹs things?ʹ Hagrid asked him, as they settled down at his wooden table with 
a glass apiece of iced juice. `Yeh ‐ er ‐ feelinʹ all righʹ, are yeh?ʹ 
Harry knew from the look of concern on Hagridʹs face that he was not referring 
to Harryʹs physical well‐being. 
`Iʹm fine,ʹ Harry said quickly, because he could not bear to discuss the thing that 
he knew was in Hagridʹs mind. `So, whereʹre you been?T 
ʹBin hidinʹ out in the mountains,ʹ said Hagrid. `Up in a ca`°e, like Sirius did when 
he = 
Hagrid broke off, cleared his throat gruffly, looked at Harry, and took a long 
draught of juice. 
`Anyway, back now,ʹ he said feebly. 
`You ‐you look better,ʹ said Harry, who was determined to keep the conversation 
moving away from Sirius. 
`Whaʹ?ʹ said Hagrid, raising a massive hand and feeling his face. `Oh ‐ oh yeah. 
Well, Grawpyʹs loads better behaved now, loads. Seemed right pleased ter see 
me when I got back, ter tell yeh the 
truth. Heʹs a good lad, really… Iʹve bin thinkinʹ abouʹ tryinʹ ter find him a lady 
friend, actually…ʹ 
Harry would normally have tried to persuade Hagrid out of this idea at once; the 
prospect of a second giant taking up residence in the Forest, possibly even wilder 
and more brutal than Grawp, was positively alarming, but somehow Harry 
could not muster the energy necessary to argue the point. He was starting to 
wish he was alone again, and with the idea of hastening his departure he took 
several large gulps of his dandelion juice, half‐emptying his glass. 

`Evʹryone knows yehʹve bin tellinʹ the truth now, Harry,ʹ said Hagrid softly and 
unexpectedly. He was watching Harry closely. `Thaʹs gotta be better, hasnʹ it?ʹ 
Harry shrugged. 
`Look…ʹ Hagrid leaned towards him across the table, `I knew Sirius longer ʹn yeh 
did… he died in battle, anʹ thaʹs the way heʹdʹve wanted ter go = 
`He didnʹt want to go at all!ʹ said Harry angrily. 
Hagrid bowed his great shaggy head… 
`Nah, I donʹ reckon he did,ʹ he said quietly. `But still, Harry… he was never one 
ter sit arounʹ at home anʹ let other people do the fightinʹ. He couldnʹve lived with 
himself if he hadnʹ gone ter help = 
Harry leapt up. 
`Iʹve got to go and visit Ron and Hermione in the hospital wing,ʹ he said 
mechanically. 
`Oh,ʹ said Hagrid, looking rather upset. `Oh… all righʹ then, Harry… take care oʹ 
yerself then, anʹ drop back in if yehʹve got a 
 
`Yeah… right…ʹ 
Harry crossed to the door as fast as he could and pulled it open; he was out in 
the sunshine again before Hagrid had finished saying goodbye, and walking 
away across the lawn. Once again, people called out to him as he passed. He 
closed his eyes for a few moments, wishing they would all vanish, that he could 
open his eyes and find himself alone in the grounds… 
A few days ago, before his exams had finished and he had seen 
754 HARRY PO‐1‐1 ER THE SECOND WAR BEGINS 75: 
the vision Voldemort had planted in his mind, he would have given almost 
anything for the wizarding world to know he had been telling the truth, for them 
to believe that Voldemort was back, and to know that he was neither a liar nor 
mad. Now, however… 

He walked a short way around the lake, sat down on its bank, sheltered from the 
gaze of passers‐by behind a tangle of shrubs, and stared out over the gleaming 
water, thinking… 
Perhaps the reason he wanted to be alone was because he had felt isolated from 
everybody since his talk with Dumbledore. An invisible barrier separated him 
from the rest of the world. He was ‐ he had always been ‐ a marked man. It was 
just that he had never really understood what that meant… 
And yet sitting here on the edge of the lake, with the terriblc weight of grief 
dragging at him, with the loss of Sirius so raw and fresh inside, he could not 
muster any great sense of fear. It was sunny, and the grounds around him were 
full of laughing people, and even though he felt as distant from them as though 
he belonged to a different race, it was still very hard to believe as he sat here that 
his life must include, or end in, murder… 
He sat there for a long time, gazing out at the water, trying not to think about his 
godfather or to remember that it was directlʹt across from here, on the opposite 
bank, that Sirius had once collapsed trying to fend off a hundred Dementors… 
The sun had set before he realised he was cold. He got up and returned to the 
castle, wiping his face on his sleeve as he went. 
Ron and Hermione left the hospital wing completely cured three days before the 
end of term. Hermione kept showing signs of wanting to talk about Sirius, but 
Ron tended to make `hushing noises every time she mentioned his name. Harry 
was still not sure whether or not he wanted to talk about his godfather yet; his 
wishes varied with his mood. He knew one thing, though: unhappy as he felt at 
the moment, he would greatly miss Hogwarts in a few daysʹ time when he was 
back at number four, Privet Drive. Even though he now understood exactly why 
he had to return there every summer, he did not feel any better about it. Indeed, 
he had never dreaded his return more. 
Professor Umbridge left Hogwarts the day before the end of term. It seemed she 
had crept out of the hospital wing during dinnertime, evidently hoping to depart 
undetected, but unfortunately for her, she met Peeves on the way, who seized his 
last chance to do as Fred had instructed, and chased her gleefully from the 
premises whacking her alternately with a walking stick and a sock full of chalk. 
Many students ran out into the Entrance Hall to watch her running away down 
the path and the Heads of Houses tried only half‐heartedly to restrain them. 

Indeed, Professor McGonagall sank back into her chair at the staff table after a 
few feeble remonstrances and was clearly heard to express a regret that she could 
not run cheering after Umbridge herself, because Peeves had borrowed her 
walking stick. 
Their last evening at school arrived; most people had finished packing and were 
already heading down to the end‐of‐term leaving feast, but Harry had not even 
started. 
`Just do it tomorrow!ʹ said Ron, who was waiting by the door of their dormitory. 
`Come on, Iʹm starving.ʹ 
`I wonʹt be long… look, you go ahead…ʹ 
But when the dormitory door closed behind Ron, Harry made no effort to speed 
up his packing. The very last thing he wanted to do was to attend the Leaving 
Feast. He was worried that Dumbledore would make some reference to him in 
his speech. He was sure to mention Voldemortʹs return; he had talked to them 
about it last year, after all… 
Harry pulled some crumpled robes out of the very bottom of his trunk to make 
way for folded ones and, as he did so, noticed a badly wrapped package lying in 
a corner of it. He could not think what it was doing there. He bent down, pulled 
it out from underneath his trainers and examined it. 
He realised what it was within seconds. Sirius had given it to him just inside the 
front door of number twelve Grimmauld Place. `Use it if you need me, all right?ʹ
Harry sank down on to his bed and unwrapped the package. Out fell a small, 
square mirror. It looked old; it was certainly dirty. Harry held it up to his face 
and saw his own reflection looking back at him 
He turned the mirror over. There on the reverse side was a scribbled note from 
Sirius. 
 
This is a two‐way mirror, Iʹve got the other one of the pair. If you 
need to speak to me, just say my name into it; youʹll appear in 
my mirror and Iʹll be able to talk in yours. James and I used to 
use them when we were in separate detentions. 

Harryʹs heart began to race. He remembered seeing his dead parents in the 
Mirror of Erised four years ago. He was going to be able to talk to Sirius again, 
right now, he knew it ‐ 
He looked around to make sure there was nobody else there; the dormitory was 
quite empty. He looked back at the mirror, raised it in front of his face with 
trembling hands and said, loudly and clearly, ʹSirius.ʹ 
His breath misted the surface of the glass. He held the mirror even closer, 
excitement flooding through him, but the eyes blinking back at him through the 
fog were definitely his own. 
He wiped the mirror clear again and said, so that every syllable rang clearly 
through the room: 
ʹSirius Black!ʹ 
Nothing happened. The frustrated face looking back out of the mirror was still, 
definitely, his own… 
Sirius didnʹt have his mirror on him when he went through the archway, said a 
small voice in Harryʹs head. Thatʹs why itʹs not working… 
Harry remained quite still for a moment, then hurled the mirror back into the 
trunk where it shattered. He had been convinced, for a whole, shining minute, 
that he was going to see Sirius, talk to him again… 
Disappointment was burning in his throat; he got up and began throwing his 
things pell‐mell into the trunk on top of the broken mirror ‐ 
But then an idea struck him… a better idea than a mirror… a much bigger, more 
important idea… how had he never thought of it before ‐ why had he never 
asked? 
He was sprinting out of the dormitorʹt and down the spiral 
 
THE SECOND WAR BEGINS 
 
 

staircase. hitting the walls as he ran and barely noticing; he hurtled across the 
empty common room, through the portrait hole and off along the corridor, 
ignoring the Fat Lady, who called after him: `The feast is about to start, you 
know, youʹre cutting it very fine!ʹ 
But Harry had no intention of going to the feast… 
How could it be that the place was full of ghosts whenever you didnʹt need one, 
yet now… 
He ran down staircases and along corridors and met nobody either alive or dead. 
They were all, clearly, in the Great Hall. Outside his Charms classroom he came 
to a halt, panting and thinking disconsolately that he would have to wait until 
later, until after the end of the feast… 
But just as he had given up hope, he saw it ‐ a translucent somebody drifting 
across the end of the corridor. 
`Hey ‐ hey Nick! NICK!ʹ 
The ghost stuck its head back out of the wall, revealing the extravagantly plumed 
hat and dangerously wobbling head of Sir Nicholas de Mimsy‐Porpington. 
`Good evening,ʹ he said, withdrawing the rest of his body from the solid stone 
and smiling at Harry `I am not the only one who is late, then? Though,ʹ he 
sighed, `in a rather different sense, of course… 
`Nick, can I ask you something?ʹ 
A most peculiar expression stole over Nearly Headless Nickʹs face as he inserted 
a finger in the stiff ruff at his neck and tugged it a little straighter, apparently to 
give himself thinking time. He desisted only when his partially severed neck 
seemed about to give way completely. 
`Er ‐ now, Harry?ʹ said Nick, looking discomfited. `Canʹt it wait until after the 
feast?T 
ʹNo ‐ Nick ‐ please,ʹ said Harry, `I really need to talk to you. Can we go in here?ʹ 
Harry opened the door of the nearest classroom and Nearly Headless Nick 
sighed. 

`Oh, very well,ʹ he said, looking resigned. `I canʹt pretend I havenʹt been 
expecting it.ʹ 
Harry was holding the door open for him, but he drifted through the wall 
instead. 
 
 
`Expecting what?ʹ Harry asked, as he closed the door. 
`You to come and find me,ʹ said Nick, now gliding over to the window and 
looking out at the darkening grounds. `It happens, sometimes… when somebody 
has suffered a… loss.ʹ 
`Well,ʹ said Harry, refusing to be deflected. `You were right, Iʹve ‐ Iʹve come to 
find you.ʹ 
Nick said nothing. 
`Itʹs ‐ʹsaid Harry, who was finding this more awkward than he had anticipated, 
`itʹs just ‐ youʹre dead. But youʹre still here, arenʹt you?ʹ 
Nick sighed and continued to gaze out at the grounds. 
`Thatʹs right, isnʹt it?ʹ Harry urged him. `You died, but Iʹm talking to you…you 
can walk around Hogwarts and everything, canʹt you?ʹ 
ʹYes,ʹ said Nearly Headless Nick quietly, `I walk and talk, yes.ʹ 
`So, you came back, didnʹt you?ʹ said Harry urgently. `People can come back, 
right? As ghosts. They donʹt have to disappear completely. Well?ʹ he added 
impatiently, when Nick continued to say nothing. 
Nearly Headless Nick hesitated, then said, `Not everyone can come back as a 
ghost.ʹ 
`What dʹyou mean?ʹ said Harry quickly 
`Only… only wizards.ʹ 
`Oh,ʹ said Harry, and he almost laughed with relief. `Well, thatʹs OK then, the 
person Iʹm asking about is a wizard. So he can come back, right?ʹ 

Nick turned away from the window and looked mournfully at Harry. 
`He wonʹt come back.ʹ 
`Who?ʹ 
`Sinus Black,ʹ said Nick. 
`But you did!ʹ said Harry angrily. `You came back ‐youʹre dead and you didnʹt 
disappear ‐ʹ 
`Wizards can leave an imprint of themselves upon the earth, to walk palely 
where their living selves once trod,ʹ said Nick miserably. `But very few wizards 
choose that path.ʹ
`Why not?ʹ said Harry. `Anyway ‐ it doesnʹt matter ‐ Sirius wonʹt care if itʹs 
unusual, heʹll come back, I know he will!ʹ 
And so strong was his belief, Harry actually turned his head to check the door, 
sure, for a split second, that he was going to see Sirius, pearly‐white and 
transparent but beaming, walking through it towards him. 
`He will not come back,ʹ repeated Nick. `He will have… gone on.ʹ 
`What dʹyou mean, ʺgone onʺ?ʹ said Harry quickly `Gone on where? Listen ‐ 
what happens when you die, anyway? Where do you go? Why doesnʹt everyone 
come back? Why isnʹt this place full of ghosts? Why ‐?T 
ʹI cannot answer,ʹ said Nick. 
`Youʹre dead, arenʹt you?ʹ said Harry exasperatedly. `Who can answer better than 
you?T 
ʹI was afraid of death,ʹ said Nick softly. `I chose to remain behind. I sometimes 
wonder whether I oughtnʹt to have… well, that is neither here nor there… in fact, 
I am neither here nor there…ʹ He gave a small sad chuckle. `I know nothing of 
the secrets of death, Harry, for I chose my feeble imitation of life W stead. I 
believe learned wizards study the matter in the Department of Mysteries ‐ʹ 
`Donʹt talk to me about that place!ʹ said Harry fiercely. 
`I am sorry not to have been more help,ʹ said Nick gently `Well… well, do excuse 
me… the feast, you know…ʹ 

And he left the room, leaving Harry there alone, gazing blankly at the wall 
through which Nick had disappeared. 
Harry felt almost as though he had lost his godfather all over again in losing the 
hope that he might be able to see or speak to him once more. He walked slowly 
and miserably back up through the empty castle, wondering whether he would 
ever feel cheerful again. 
He had turned the corner towards the Fat Ladyʹs corridor when he saw 
somebody up ahead fastening a note to a board on the wall. A second glance 
showed him it was Luna. There were no good hiding places nearby, she was 
bound to have heard his footsteps, and in any case, Harry could hardly muster 
the energy to avoid anyone at the moment. 
`Hello,ʹ said Luna vaguely, glancing around at him as she stepped back from the 
notice. 
 
 
 
 
`How come youʹre not at the feast?ʹ Harry asked. 
`Well, Iʹve lost most of my possessions,ʹ said Luna serenely. ʹPeople take them 
and hide them, you know. But as itʹs the last night, I really do need them back, so 
Iʹve been putting up signs.ʹ 
She gestured towards the noticeboard, upon which, sure enough, she had pinned 
a list of all her missing books and clothes, with a plea for their return. 
An odd feeling rose in Harry; an emotion quite different from the anger and grief 
that had filled him since Siriusʹs death. It was a few moments before he realised 
that he was feeling sorry for Luna. 
`How come people hide your stuff?ʹ he asked her, frowning. 
`Oh… well…ʹ she shrugged. `I think they think Iʹm a bit odd, you know. Some 
people call me ʺLoonyʺ Lovegood, actually.ʹ 
Harry looked at her and the new feeling of pity intensified rather painfully. 

`Thatʹs no reason for them to take your things,ʹ he said flatly. Dʹyou want help 
finding them?ʹ 
ʹOh, no,ʹ she said, smiling at him. `Theyʹll come back, they always do in the end. 
It was just that I wanted to pack tonight. Anyway… why arenʹt you at the feast?ʹ 
Harry shrugged. Just didnʹt feel like it.ʹ 
`No,ʹ said Luna, observing him with those oddly misty, protuberant eyes. `I donʹt 
suppose you do. That man the Death Eaters killed was your godfather, wasnʹt 
he? Ginny told me.ʹ 
Harry nodded curtly, but found that for some reason he did not mind Luna 
talking about Sirius. He had just remembered that she, too, could see Thestrals. 
`Have you…ʹ he began. `I mean, who… has anyone you known ever died?ʹ 
`Yes,ʹ said Luna simply, `my mother. She was a quite extraordinary witch, you 
know, but she did like to experiment and one of her spells went rather badly 
wrong one day. I was nine.ʹ 
`Iʹm sorryʹ Harry mumbled. 
ʹYes, it was rather horrible,ʹ said Luna conversationally. `I still feel very sad about 
it sometimes. But Iʹve still got Dad. And anyway, itʹs not as though Iʹll never see 
Mum again, is it?ʹ 
 
 
 
 
 
`Er ‐ isnʹt it?ʹ said Harry uncertainly. 
She shook her head in disbelief. 
`Oh, come on. You heard them, just behind the veil, didnʹt you?ʹ 
`You mean…ʹ 
`In that room with the archway. They were just lurking out of sight, thatʹs all. 
You heard them.ʹ 

They looked at each other. Luna was smiling slightly. Harry did not know what 
to say, or to think; Luna believed so many extraordinary things… yet he had 
been sure he had heard voices behind the veil, too. 
`Are you sure you donʹt want me to help you look for your stuff?ʹ he said. 
`Oh, no,ʹ said Luna. `No, I think Iʹll just go down and have some pudding and 
wait for it all to turn up… it always does in the end… well, have a nice holiday 
Harryʹ 
`Yeah… yeah, you too.ʹ 
She walked away from him and, as he watched her go, he found that the terrible 
weight in his stomach‐ seemed to have lessened slightly. 
The journey home on the Hogwarts Express next day was eventful in several 
ways. Firstly Malfoy, Crabbe and Goyle, who had clearly been waiting all week 
for the opportunity to strike without teacher witnesses, attempted to ambush 
Harry halfway down the train as he made his way back from the toilet. The 
attack might have succeeded had it not been for the fact that they unwittingly 
chose to stage the attack right outside a compartment full of DA members, who 
saw what was happening through the glass and rose as one to rush to Harryʹs 
aid. By the time Ernie Macmillan, Hannah Abbott, Susan Bones, Justin Finch‐
Fletchley Anthony Goldstein and Terry Boot had finished using a wide variety of 
the hexes and jinxes Harry had taught them, Malfoy Crabbe and Goyle 
resembled nothing so much as three gigantic slugs squeezed into Hogwarts 
uniform as Harry, Ernie and Justin hoisted them into the luggage rack and left 
them there to ooze. 
`I must say, Iʹm looking forward to seeing Malfoyʹs motherʹs face when he gets 
off the train,ʹ said Ernie, with some satisfaction, as 
he watched Malloy squirm above him. Ernie had never quite got over the 
indignity of Malloy docking points from Hufflepuff during his brief spell as a 
member of the Inquisitorial Squad. 
`Goyleʹs mumʹll be really pleased, though,ʹ said Ron, who had come to 
investigate the source of the commotion. `Heʹs loads betterlooking now… 
anyway, Harry, the food trolleyʹs just stopped if you want anything…ʹ 

Harry thanked the others and accompanied Ron back to their compartment, 
where he bought a large pile of cauldron cakes and pumpkin pasties. Hermione 
was reading the Daily Prophet again, Ginny was doing a quiz in The Quibbler and 
Neville was stroking his Mimbulus mimbletonia, which had grown a great deal 
over the year and now made odd crooning noises when touched. 
Harry and Ron whiled away most of the journey playing wizard chess while 
Hermione read out snippets from the Prophet. It was now full of articles about 
how to repel Dementors, attempts by the Ministry to track down Death Eaters 
and hysterical letters claiming that the writer had seen Lord Voldemort walking 
past their house that very morning… 
`It hasnʹt really started yet,ʹ sighed Hermione gloomily, folding up the 
newspaper again. `But it wonʹt be long now…ʹ 
`Hey, Harryʹ said Ron softly, nodding towards the glass window on to the 
corridor. 
Harry looked around. Cho was passing, accompanied by Marietta Edgecombe, 
who was wearing a balaclava. His and Choʹs eyes met for a moment. Cho 
blushed and kept walking. Harry looked back down at the chessboard just in 
time to see one of his pawns chased off its square by Ronʹs knight. 
`Whatʹs ‐ er ‐ going on with you and her, anyway?ʹ Ron asked quietly 
`Nothing,ʹ said Harry truthfully. 
`I ‐ er ‐ heard sheʹs going out with someone else now,ʹ said Hermione tentatively. 
Harry was surprised to find that this information did not hurt at all. Wanting to 
impress Cho seemed to belong to a past that was no longer quite connected with 
him; so much of what he had wanted before Sinusʹ,ʹ death felt that «°av these 
days… the week 
that had elapsed since he had last seen Sirius seemed to have lasted much, much 
longer; it stretched across two universes, the one with Sirius in it, and the one 
without. 
`Youʹre well out of it, mate,ʹ said Ron forcefully. `I mean, sheʹs quite good‐
looking and all that, but you want someone a bit more cheerful.ʹ 

`Sheʹs probably cheerful enough with someone else,ʹ said Harry, shrugging. 
`Whoʹs she with now, anyway?ʹ Ron asked Hermione, but it was Ginny who 
answered. 
`Michael Corner,ʹ she said. 
`Michael ‐ but = maid Ron, craning around in his seat to stare at her. `But you 
were going out with him!ʹ 
`Not any more,ʹ said Ginny resolutely. `He didnʹt like Gryffindor beating 
Ravenclaw at Quidditch, and got really sulky, so I ditched him and he ran off to 
comfort Cho instead.ʹ She scratched her nose absently with the end of her quill, 
turned The Quibbler upsidedown and began marking her answers. Ron looked 
highly delighted. 
`Well, I always thought he was a bit of an idiot,ʹ he said, prodding his queen 
forwards towards Harryʹs quivering castle. `Good for you. Just choose someone ‐ 
better ‐ next time.ʹ 
He cast Harry an oddly furtive look as he said it. 
`Well, Iʹve chosen Dean Thomas, would you say heʹs better?ʹ asked Ginny 
vaguely. 
WHAT?ʹ shouted Ron, upending the chessboard: Crookshanks went plunging 
after the pieces and Hedwig and Pigwidgeon twittered and hooted angrily from 
overhead. 
As the train slowed down in the approach to Kingʹs Cross, Harry thought he had 
never wanted to leave it less. He even wondered fleetingly what would happen if 
he simply refused to get off, but remained stubbornly sitting there until the first 
of September, when it would take him back to Hogwarts. When it finally puffed 
to a standstill, however, he lifted down Hedwigʹs cage and prepared to drag his 
trunk from the train as usual. 
When the ticket inspector signalled to Harry, Ron and Hermione that it was safe 
to walk through the magical barrier between platforms nine and ten, however, he 
found a surprise awaiting him on 

the other side: a group of people standing there to greet him who he had not 
expected at all. 
There was Mad‐Eye Moody, looking quite as sinister with his bowler hat pulled 
low over his magical eye as he would have done without it, his gnarled hands 
clutching a long staff, his body wrapped in a voluminous travelling cloak. Tonks 
stood just behind him, her bright bubble‐gum‐pink hair gleaming in the sunlight 
filtering through the dirty glass of the station ceiling, wearing heavily patched 
jeans and a bright purple T‐shirt bearing the legend The Weird Sisters. Next to 
Tonks was Lupin, his face pale, his hair greying, a long and threadbare overcoat 
covering a shabby jumper and trousers. At the front of the group stood Mr and 
Mrs Weasley, dressed in their Muggle best, and Fred and George, who were both 
wearing brand‐new jackets in some lurid green, scaly material. 
ʹRon, Ginny!ʹ called Mrs Weasley, hurrying forwards and hugging her children 
tightly `Oh, and Harry dear ‐ how are you?T 
ʹFine,ʹ lied Harry, as she pulled him into a tight embrace. Over her shoulder he 
saw Ron goggling at the twinsʹ new clothes. 
`What are they supposed to be?ʹ he asked, pointing at the jackets. 
`Finest dragonskin, little broʹ,ʹ said Fred, giving his zip a little tweak. `Business is 
booming and we thought weʹd treat ourselves.ʹ 
`Hello, Harryʹ said Lupin, as Mrs Weasley let go of Harry and turned to greet 
Hermione. 
`Hi,ʹ said Harry `I didnʹt expect … what are you all doing here?T 
ʹWell,ʹ said Lupin with a slight smile, `we thought we might have a little chat 
with your aunt and uncle before letting them take you home.ʹ 
`I dunno if thatʹs a good idea,ʹ said Harry at once. 
`Oh, I think it is,ʹ growled Moody, who had limped a little closer. Thatʹll be them, 
will it, Potter?ʹ 
He pointed with his thumb over his shoulder; his magical eye was evidently 
peering through the back of his head and his bowler hat. Harry leaned an inch or 
so to the left to see where Mad‐Eye was pointing and there, sure enough, were 

the three Dursleys, who looked positively appalled to see Harryʹs reception 
committee. 
`Ah, Harryʹ said Mr Weasley, turning from Hermioneʹs parents, 
who he had just greeted enthusiastically, and who were now taking it in turns to 
hug Hermione. `Well ‐ shall we do it, then?T 
ʹYeah, I reckon so, Arthur,ʹ said Moody. 
He and Mr Weasley took the lead across the station towards the Dursleys, who 
were apparently rooted to the floor. Hermione disengaged herself gently from 
her mother to join the group. 
`Good afternoon,ʹ said Mr Weasley pleasantly to Uncle Vernon as he came to a 
halt right in front of him. `You might remember me, my nameʹs Arthur Weasleyʹ 
As Mr Weasley had single‐handedly demolished most of the Dursleysʹ living 
room two years previously, Harry would have been very surprised if Uncle 
Vernon had forgotten him. Sure enough, Uncle Vernon turned a deeper shade of 
puce and glared at Mr Weasley, but chose not to say anything, partly, perhaps, 
because the Dursleys were outnumbered two to one. Aunt Petunia looked both 
frightened and embarrassed; she kept glancing around, as though terrified 
somebody she knew would see her in such company. Dudley, meanwhile, 
seemed to be trying to look small and insignificant, a feat at which he was failing 
extravagantly. 
`We thought weʹd just have a few words with you about Harry, said Mr Weasley, 
still smiling. 
`Yeah,ʹ growled Moody. `About how heʹs treated when heʹs at your place.ʹ 
Uncle Vernonʹs moustache seemed to bristle with indignation. Possibly because 
the bowler hat gave him the entirely mistaken impression that he was dealing 
with a kindred spirit, he addressed himself to Moody. 
`I am not aware that it is any of your business what goes on in my house ‐ 
`I expect what youʹre not aware of would fill several books, Dursley,ʹ growled 
Moody. 

`Anyway, thatʹs not the point,ʹ interjected Tonks, whose pink hair seemed to 
offend Aunt Petunia more than all the rest put together, for she closed her eyes 
rather than look at her. `The point is, if we find out youʹve been horrible to Harry 
= 
`‐ And make no mistake, weʹll hear about it,ʹ added Lupin pleasantly. 
`Yes,ʹ said Mr Weasley, `even if you wonʹt let Harry use the fellytone = 
`Telephone,ʹ whispered Hermione. 
`‐ Yeah, if we get any hint that Potterʹs been mistreated in any way, youʹll have 
us to answer to,ʹ said Moody. 
Uncle Vernon swelled ominously. His sense of outrage seemed to outweigh even 
his fear of this bunch of oddballs. 
`Are you threatening me, sir?ʹ he said, so loudly that passers‐by actually turned 
to stare. 
`Yes, I am,ʹ said Mad‐Eye, who seemed rather pleased that Uncle Vernon had 
grasped this fact so quickly. 
`And do I look like the kind of man who can be intimidated?ʹ barked Uncle 
Vernon. 
`Well…ʹ said Moody, pushing back his bowler hat to reveal his sinisterly 
revolving magical eye. Uncle Vernon leapt backwards in horror and collided 
painfully with a luggage trolley. `Yes, Iʹd have to say you do, Dursleyʹ 
He turned away from Uncle Vernon to survey Harry. 
`So, Potter… give us a shout if you need us. If we donʹt hear from you for three 
days in a row, weʹll send someone along…ʹ 
Aunt Petunia whimpered piteously. It could not have been plainer that she was 
thinking of what the neighbours would say if theʹt caught sight of these people 
marching up the garden path. 
`Bye, then, Potter,ʹ said Moody, grasping Harryʹs shoulder for a moment with a 
gnarled hand. 

`Take care, Harry,ʹ said Lupin quietly. `Keep in touch.ʹ 
`Harry, weʹll have you away from there as soon as we can,ʹ Mrs Weasley 
whispered, hugging him again. 
`Weʹll see you soon, mate,ʹ said Ron anxiously, shaking Harryʹs hand. 
`Really soon, Harryʹ said Hermione earnestly. `We promise.ʹ 
Harry nodded. He somehow could not find words to tell them what it meant to 
him, to see them all ranged there, on his side. Instead, he smiled, raised a hand in 
farewell, turned around and led the way out of the station towards the sunlit 
street, with Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia and Dudley hurrying along in his wake. 

